{"id": "141358", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141358", "title": "European Commission publishes progress report on Western Balkans", "text": "The European Commission (EC) published its annual progress report on the Western Balkans and Turkey on Wednesday.\nIn the report, the EC said that Croatia could wrap up its membership talks in 2010, but the other Balkan countries have more work to do. The report provides no entry date for Croatia.\n\"Croatia will need to pursue its reform efforts, in particular on the judiciary and public administration, the fight against and organised crime, and minority rights. If Croatia meets all outstanding benchmarks in time, the accession negotiations could be concluded next year,\" the report read.\nBrussels criticised the EU-hopefuls over widespread corruption and shortcomings in the judiciary in the document. The commission urged Turkey to step up political and economic reforms, to improve the rights of minorities, women and trade unions, as well as to normalise relations with Cyprus.\nThe report notes that Serbia, Albania, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Kosovo are making uneven progress, and Serbia has a strong administrative capacity to implement the necessary reforms.\nThe EC recommended that the 27-nation bloc start accession talks with Macedonia, as the country has made \"convincing progress\", EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn said in Brussels while presenting the report. In a separate document, the EC proposed that the EU step up its ties with Kosovo by offering visa-free travel to its citizens when the conditions are met."}
{"id": "141373", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141373", "title": "Son of Indian hospital CEO commits suicide by jumping out of window", "text": "Miten Mehta, the son of the CEO of the Lilavati Hospital in Colaba, India, reportedly committed suicide on Wednesday after jumping from the ninth floor of the Maker Towers residence. Mehta, aged 54, was a diamond merchant based in Belgium. Police said that the incident took place sometime between 20:30 Mumbai Time (+5.5 UTC) and 21:00.\nAt 21:00, police received a call from the residents of the building saying that Miten had committed suicide in Maker Towers, Colaba. Police arrived at the scene and took him to the GT hospital, but he was declared dead on arrival.\nMehta was reportedly talking to his mother, Sushilaben, when he suddenly went to a window on the ninth floor and leapt out of it. He did not leave a suicide note.\nSome sources reported that Mehta was to leave for Belgium the day he killed himself, but when he went downstairs, he had received a call, after which he cancelled his flight. He then went upstairs to his home and committed suicide. The police suggested that depression or frustration could have led to his killing himself.\nMehta's daughter, who is studying in the US, will be coming to India soon along with the Mehta's father, Vijay Mehta, who is the CEO of the Lilavati Hospital. The police said that they would record Miten's family members' statements once the final rites are performed.\nThe autopsy report of GT hospital stated that he had died due to severe head injuries. His body was then moved to Lilavati Hospital."}
{"id": "141391", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141391", "title": "6-year-old boy in Colorado found alive, unhurt after runaway balloon allegedly carried him away", "text": "Falcon Heene, a 6-year-old boy from Fort Collins in the US state of Colorado, has been found safe and unharmed after earlier reports said he boarded an experimental balloon the family was building and then floated away. The Larimer County sheriff announced during a press conference at 6:11 p.m. that Heene was found hiding inside a box in the family's attic above the garage.\nEarlier reports had said that Heene might have been inside a box attached to the bottom of the balloon, something authorities were focusing part of their search on. However, there were conflicting reports as to whether or not there was anything else attached to the balloon. The \"New York Times\" reports that the small compartment present on the bottom of the balloon when it landed, was the alleged box.\n\"It [the box] was damaged. Basically, it was folded over and damaged,\" said Larimer County sheriff spokeswoman, Kathy Messick to the Times.\nThe balloon landed south of Prospect Springs. Police stated that they were searching for Heene based on what his two other brothers told authorities. A witness had earlier said that he might have seen something fall off the balloon on Weld County Roads 28, 41 or 43. Authorities were also looking into the possibility that Heene was never inside the balloon at all, and that he was hiding somewhere in his neighborhood to avoid punishment. This ultimately turned out to be true.\nInitial reports were that Heene allegedly climbed into the balloon in his backyard in Fort Collins at about 11:00 a.m. local time. He then detached the anchor and began to float away. Police later said in a press conference that the story came from Falcon's two brothers. Local residents were able to snap pictures of the balloon. Shortly after, a news helicopter was able to locate the balloon, which was initially flying at an altitude of 7,000 feet.\nThe balloon was never meant to carry a human, according to Fort Collins police. \"This balloon was never meant to actually carry anybody. It was just a family project they were working on. The little compartment where their son is in is very small and it's not attached very well.\"\nThe Heene family lives in Fort Collins. The boy's father, Richard, is a storm chaser and scientist. One report said they were building the experimental balloon in an effort to help commuters get to work easier. Officials say it has the ability to fly at an altitude of 10,000 feet. It is reported to be about 20 feet long, covered in tinfoil and resembles a flying saucer. Richard and his wife Naomi previously appeared on an episode of the U.S. television show \"Wife Swap\" and Richard has appeared in several videos chasing storms and dust devils. One of those chases was previously featured on an ABC News report."}
{"id": "141396", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141396", "title": "Homemade balloon carries 6-year-old boy away in Colorado", "text": ""}
{"id": "141407", "revid": "7186", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141407", "title": "At least 40 dead after string of attacks in Pakistan", "text": "Pakistani officials have said that five attacks on government sites across the country have killed at least forty people. The latest attack occurred late on Thursday at a government residential area in Peshawar. Officials said they suspect Taliban militants for being responsible for the attacks. \nAuthorities said that the situation in the eastern city of Lahore was under control, following separate attacks on the country's Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) and two police training centers.\nGunmen with at least one suicide jacket stormed the FIA building at mid-morning. The FIA is an agency responsible for investigating matters relating to terrorism and immigration. Early last year, the building was the target of a suicide truck bomb that killed more than 20 people.\n\"Reportedly, four men attacked the FIA building and initial reports are that two of them have been killed,\" said the provincial interior secretary, Nadeem Hassan Asif Punjab.\nSoon after the assault on the FIA began, gunmen targeted two police training centers on the outskirts of Lahore. In the suburb of Manawa, gunmen targeted a center that militants attacked earlier this year. In the other incident, attackers with suicide jackets in Bedian climbed over a wall to gain access to the Elite Force Training Center. It took several hours before security forces were able to gain control of all the sites.\nThe attacks in Pakistan's east took place hours after a suicide car bomber targeted a police station at a garrison town about an hour's drive from the northwestern city of Peshawar.\nSpeaking to local media, Pakistani Interior Minister Rehman Malik said intelligence agencies had expected attacks on security sites in the country and that authorities will remain on high-alert. He said the recent violence shows the militants want to bring the frontlines from Pakistan's violent northwest to Punjab province.\nOn Saturday, militants with ties to Punjab, as well as the South Waziristan tribal region, assaulted the Pakistani army's headquarters in Rawalpindi.\nPakistani intelligence officials believe the attacks are a reaction to the military's raids on South Waziristan. The military is expected to launch a full-scale assault on Taliban militants in the region bordering Afghanistan. "}
{"id": "141411", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141411", "title": "China sentences six more to death over riots", "text": "China has sentenced six more people to death for murders committed during July riots in far northwestern Xinjiang region. This brings the number of people facing the death penalty for their involvement in the riots to nine.\nChina saw its worst ethnic violence in decades, when riots erupted in Xinjiang's regional capital, Urumqi, in July. Muslim Uighurs attacked members of China's dominant Han ethnic group. The Han Chinese retaliated, two days later, by attacking Uighurs. Officials say nearly 200 people were killed in the riots.\nThe Chinese media has said the Urumqi court gave three of the six condemned men two-year reprieves \u2014 a sentence that is often commuted to life in prison.\nFive of the death sentences went to Uighurs, who were convicted of beating people to death during the initial riots on July 5. The official Xinhua news agency says another man, who appears to be Han Chinese based on his name, was convicted of beating a Uighur man to death during vigilante attacks, two days later.\nAn employee at the Xinjiang government's news center, who did not give her name, said that the sentencing was not over. She said the official reports Thursday only cover the verdict for cases that were decided that day. She added that there will still be verdicts for other cases, but gave no details as to how many cases remain to be tried, how serious they are or when the verdicts would be reached.\nOn Monday, six Uighur defendants were sentenced to death by the same court. Those sentences were the first to be handed down in the trials of scores of suspects arrested during and after the riots.\nLast week, a Chinese court in Guangdong province sentenced one man to death and another to life in prison for their part in a toy factory brawl in June. Two ethnic Uighurs were killed in that violence, which sparked the rioting in Xinjiang.\nThe Turkic-speaking Uighurs have long complained of discrimination by the Han and say the government severely restricts their Muslim religious practices. The Chinese government says there is no discrimination and that Uighurs, like other ethnic minority groups, receive benefits the Han majority does not. "}
{"id": "141415", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141415", "title": "6-year-old boy in Colorado missing after runaway balloon allegedly carried him away", "text": ""}
{"id": "141418", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141418", "title": "6-year-old boy in Colorado alive, unhurt after runaway balloon allegedly carried him away", "text": ""}
{"id": "141422", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141422", "title": "Obama signs Pakistan aid bill worth US$7.5 billion", "text": "US president Barack Obama signed a bill that will give Pakistan US$7.5 billion worth of nonmilitary aid into law on Thursday.\nThe bill was signed by the president at the White House. The White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs, said that the law demonstrated the \"tangible manifestation of broad support for Pakistan in the US.\"\nThe plan will provide money for projects to help fund energy generation, roads, schools, and water resource management in Pakistan, among other things. Congress, however, will still need to allot the money indicated in the bill, and the bill will need to be renewed annually.\nSome members of the Pakistani parliament and military said that they felt some of the rules laid out in the plan might result in a breach of sovereignty. However, the Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, said he believed that the US wasn't trying to take control over his country's internal politics."}
{"id": "141431", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141431", "title": "EC publishes progress report on Western Balkans", "text": ""}
{"id": "141436", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141436", "title": "Armed conflicts in the world down by 40% since early 1990s.", "text": ""}
{"id": "141439", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141439", "title": "NY Sen. Monserrate found guilty of misdemeanor assault", "text": "New York State Senator Hiram Monserrate was found guilty of misdemeanor assault Thursday, in the criminal trial involving an alleged attack on his girlfriend Karla Giraldo. Monserrate will face sentencing on the misdemeanor assault conviction on December 4.\nMonserrate had also faced charges of felony assault, but he was not convicted of these charges. The misdemeanor assault conviction means Monserrate is guilty of \"recklessly causing physical injury\" to Giraldo. Monserrate could be sentenced to one year in jail for the misdemeanor assault conviction.\nThe prosecution had asserted that when Monserrate discovered that his girlfriend had the business card of another man, he chose to strike out at her. Monserrate entered a plea of not guilty to charges he sliced his girlfriend's face with broken glass during a conflict at their apartment on December 19, 2008. The defense team denied that the injury to the woman by Monserrate was intentional, instead claiming that the incident was \"an accident\" and the result of Monserrate tripping while bringing Giraldo a glass of water.\nA police detective that first investigated the crime scene testified about the bloody evidence discovered at Monserrate's apartment, including broken glass, blood, towels covered in blood, and a ripped women's t-shirt. Forensic biologist Ewilina Badja said that the majority of the blood found at the crime scene had originated from one woman. Prosecutors asserted that this woman is Giraldo, who was treated for injuries surrounding her left eye that took approximately 40 stitches to remedy. Badja identified blood on a male green shirt found in the bathroom sink as that of Monserrate.\nAn emergency physician that had treated Giraldo stated in court that Monserrate's girlfriend asserted to her that her injuries were not the result of an accident. Though the defense has argued that Giraldo, who is from Ecuador, may have been difficult to understand \u2013 the physician stated she conversed with Monserrate's girlfriend in both Spanish and in English.\nQueens Supreme Court Justice William Erlbaum judged the case without a jury, as Monserrate waived his right for a trial before his peers. The group National Organization for Women had requested that the judge rule Monserrate should be given \"the maximum sentence allowable by law\". If he had been convicted of a felony, Democrat Sen. Monserrate could have automatically lost his New York State Senate seat. Monserrate did not testify during the criminal trial against him.\nWXXI reported that Patricia Salkin of the Government Law Center at Albany Law School, said state Senators may be faced with political issues if they do not do something about Monserrate's continued presence as a Senator. Salkin stated that the issue was: \"Whether or not the public is going to stand for somebody who has been convicted of a criminal act, and act of domestic violence in this case, to be allowed to continue.\" According to WXXI, Senate rules do not state that a misdemeanor conviction means a politician must be removed from office, it is within the power of the New York Senate to initiate procedures to oust a sitting Senator. WXXI reported that leaders within the Democratic party in the New York Senate were debating whether to being proceedings to remove Monserrate from his seat. WNYC reported that the Senators are deciding whether or not to initiate disciplinary proceedings against Monserrate.\nThe \"New York Daily News\" reported that Monserrate gave a statement outside the courthouse after the ruling, and continued to describe the injury to Giraldo's face as a \"terrible accident\". He referred to Giraldo as \"\"a person who I love\". Monserrate stated that: \"I have to live with that forever. There are no winners here today.\" Monserrate's attorney, Joseph Tacopina, believed that his client would not serve any jail time. \"On a reckless misdemeanor, first offense, he won't go to jail,\" said Tacopina. \nNew York City Council member Eric Gioia was the first Democratic politician to publicly request that Monserrate resign from his post as a member of the New York State Senate. Gioia released a statement which said: \"There is no room in government or in the Democratic Party for people who commit such heinous crimes against women. Hiram Monserrate must be swiftly removed from office. Elected officials should rightfully be held to a higher standard, and New Yorkers deserve better representation than a convicted perpetrator of domestic violence.\" Gioia stated that \"the circumstances revealed in the trial ... truly shock the conscience.\"\nMonserrate is a former New York City police officer. Prior to becoming a member of the New York State Senate, he was a city councilman. He became a member of the New York State Senate weeks after the alleged conflict with Giraldo, and was made chair of the committee overseeing consumer affairs. Along with Democrat Pedro Espada Jr., Monserrate started a shift in control of the Senate by aligning with the Republican Party. Monserrate is currently allied with the Democrats in the New York Senate, and if he is removed from his seat the ratio of Democrats to Republicans would be 31-30."}
{"id": "141448", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141448", "title": "IBEX satellite releases first all sky map", "text": "NASA's IBEX (or Interstellar Boundary Explorer) satellite, released into orbit last October, has provided the data for the first \"all sky map\" showing the boundary between the Solar System and Interstellar Space. IBEX mapped the sky using two sensors, gathering information about the particle structure within the Milky Way. This map should help researchers better understand relationships between the Sun and our Galaxy.\nThe particles which IBEX looks for are energetic neutral atoms, atoms with a neutral charge that release large amounts of energy in most directions. The best place to find these particles is in the Sun's Heliosphere, where forces from outside our solar system interact with the Sun's magnetic field, causing these particles to become highly energetic. Two sensors on IBEX detect and catalog this. After six months of repeating this cycle over the entire night sky, IBEX acquired enough data to create the all sky map.\nThis map goes beyond the capacities of the Voyager missions, giving an insight into the Sun's interaction with the rest of the galaxy. As Cosmic rays approach the solar system, the heliosphere prevents them from crossing into the heart of the solar system, thereby effectively stopping these harmful rays from reaching Earth. This new energy is released from electrically neutral atoms, and when scientists look at the energy given off by these atoms they have a general view of what energy is coming from what area.\nKnowing the place in the galaxy where certain rays come from help scientists understand the way our galaxy functions, from star positioning to globular clusters. \"For the first time, we're sticking our heads out of the sun's atmosphere and beginning to really understand our place in the galaxy,\" said David J. Comas of NASA."}
{"id": "141454", "revid": "70202", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141454", "title": "Man charged with assaulting British singer Leona Lewis", "text": "A man has been arrested and charged after the assault of British singer Leona Lewis, which occurred on Wednesday. The attacker turned out to be 29-year-old Peter Kowalczyk, who suffers from a health condition called anaemia, which causes a reduction from the normal number of red blood cells. The condition also causes a decrease in oxygen-binding ability. His parents said that it \"affects his state of mind\". He had also been suffering from a series of psychological problems, of which he was getting music therapy for from the National Health Service (NHS).\nIt was thought that he attacked Leona Lewis out of envy because she had won the third series of The X Factor UK, whereas he was turned down from the show, according to British tabloid The Sun. On Wednesday, Leona was signing copies of her autobiography \"Dreams\" for attending fans in a Waterstone's book specialist store in the Piccadilly region of London, England. Kowalczyk was believed to be waiting for five hours to get an autobiography signing. When he did attack Lewis, he was immediately wrestled to the ground by security guards at the scene, while Leona was escorted away. The attack left a large bruise on her head.\nPeter has been arrested and charged with assault. He was placed into a psychiatric hospital and sectioned under the Mental Health Act 2007 on Thursday. As a result of this incident, Leona Lewis has cancelled a trip to Germany, where she would have signed more copies of her autobiography. The 24-year-old singer is now being cared for in her East London home by Jo and Maria, her parents, and is also being comforted by Lou Al-Chaama, her boyfriend. It has been reported that Kowalczyk is due to appear in a court in late October 2009."}
{"id": "141461", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141461", "title": "Baby survives after stroller hit by train in Melbourne, Australia", "text": "A 6-month-old child is alive, having only received minor injuries, after the stroller it was riding in was run over by a commuter train in Melbourne, Australia. The entire incident was recorded by security cameras at Ashburton railway station, where the incident occurred.\nSecurity video footage shows the mother tending to her baby who was in a stroller. She then moves the stroller a safer distance from the tracks. After letting go of the stroller for a second, it rolled towards the tracks and fell off the platform, being struck and dragged nearly 30 meters by the arriving train. Police say the brakes on the stroller were not applied. \nThe baby only received a minor cut to the head, and had already been rescued before authorities arrived on scene. Mother and baby were taken to Royal Children's Hospital and released shortly thereafter. At a press conference following the incident, Michael Ferweda, a police spokesperson called it a \"miracle\" that no one was injured and that the mother was not at fault. No charges are going to be filed. \"It was a lucky escape and a chance for commuters to think about heeding warnings to be more careful around platforms,\" he added. The name of the baby and mother have not been released.\nJon Wright, one of the responding paramedics who treated the baby said, \"Fortunately the train was slowing as it pulled into the station. The baby received a bump to his head and was distressed when we arrived. Luckily he was strapped into his pram at the time, which probably saved his life.\""}
{"id": "141468", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141468", "title": "Self-defenestration of Lilavati hospital CEO's son shrouded in mystery", "text": ""}
{"id": "141472", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141472", "title": "World Wrestling Entertainment heir Shane McMahon resigns from the company", "text": "Predicted heir to World Wrestling Entertainment Shane McMahon has announced he will leave the company on January 1, 2010. McMahon is the son of current owner Vincent K. McMahon and the current Executive Vice President of Global Media for the company. With the departure of Shane, it will be the first time that a male heir will not take over the company when Vince retires. \nShane announced his resignation on WWE.com earlier today saying, \"It is with great sadness that I announce my resignation from the WWE, effective January 1, 2010.\" He mentioned how he \"never even considered a future outside the walls of the WWE.\" He continued to thank his father and superstars of today and the past. According to Shane, he resigned because it was his \"to pursue outside ventures.\"\nWorld Wrestling Entertainment released an official statement responding to Shane\u2019s announcement. Current owner and Shane\u2019s father Vince McMahon said, \"Even though I am personally saddened by Shane\u2019s decision to leave the company, I am proud of the enormous contributions he has made. He will unquestionably bring passion, commitment and extensive business experience to any endeavour he pursues.\"\nShane was the fourth generation to World Wrestling Entertainment. He is the son of Vincent K. McMahon, the grandson of Vincent J. McMahon and the great-grandson of Jess McMahon. He has two sons who are considered the fifth generation."}
{"id": "141473", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141473", "title": "Suicide bomber attacks Iraqi mosque; twelve dead", "text": "Iraqi police have said that a suicide bomber killed at least 11 people in an attack on a mosque in northern Iraq on Friday.\nAccording to officials, at least 70 other people were wounded in the bombing, which took place during Friday prayers at a Sunni mosque in the northern town of Tal Afar. The bomber, who was described as being \"tall\", stood up while the cleric, Abdul-Satar Hassan, a member of an Iraqi Sunni political party, was giving a sermon. He then opened fire with a firearm.\nSeveral seconds later, he shouted \"God is great!\", and blew himself up with explosives attached to his person, according to a witness at the mosque.\nTal Afar is located in the Nineveh province, near Mosul. Though Iraq has seen a decline in violence over the past year, attacks in that part of the country have continued."}
{"id": "141481", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141481", "title": "UN rights council endorses Gaza report", "text": "The United Nations human rights council has voted in favor of endorsing a report made by South African Judge Richard Goldstone that accuses Israel and Hamas of committing war crimes during fighting late last year that left 1,400 Palestinians and 13 Israelis dead. The report was adopted 25 votes to six with eleven abstentions. \nThe report calls on the UN to make sure that Israel and Hamas conduct thorough investigations into the alleged war crimes. Should either side fail to do so, the report recommends that cases be sent to the International Criminal Court of Justice.\nIn addition to endorsing the report the rights council, \"strongly condemns all policies and measures taken by Israel, the occupying power, including those limiting access of Palestinians to their properties and holy sites\". Although it accuses both Hamas and Israel of war crimes the report is mainly critical of actions taken by the Israeli government. Of the 31 chapters in the report, only one is dedicated to discussing crimes by Palestinian fighters.\nThe report alleges that the Israeli military deliberately targeted civilians, used Palestinians as human shields and destroyed civilian infrastructure during Operation Cast Lead which lasted from December 27, 2008 to January 18 this year.\nIsrael and the United States responded by claiming that the report ignored Israel's right to self defense from rocket fire. They also warned the report might jeopardize Middle East Peace efforts. \nVoting on the report was to be originally delayed until March of next year after considering a request by Mahmoud Abbas leader of the Palestinian Authority which controls the West Bank. Abbas was pressured into the decision to delay the vote by the US' Hillary Clinton; Backlash from the Palestinian community forced him to endorse the report. The incident has caused large scale antagonism against the Palestinian Authority.\nThe United States, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Slovenia, and Ukraine all voted against the report."}
{"id": "141483", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141483", "title": "Bank of America reports losses of over US$2.2 billion", "text": "The Corporation, the second-largest bank in the United States, has announced that it lost US$2.24 billion in the third quarter of this year, mainly due to increases in loan losses.\nAccording to the bank, the losses are equal to 26 cents per share, worse than most economic analysts had forecast. In the same period a year earlier, Bank of America had gained $704 million, or fifteen cents per share.\nThe bank's CEO, Ken Lewis, said in a statement that \"[...] credit costs remain high, and that is our major financial challenge going forward. However, we are heartened by early positive signs, such as the leveling of delinquencies among our credit card numbers.\"\nLewis said that losses from loans would probably continue to increase. In a conference call with analysts, he said that \"based on [the] economic scenario, results in the fourth quarter are expected to continue to be challenging as we close the year.\""}
{"id": "141484", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141484", "title": "Botswana holds parliamentary elections", "text": "Voters in Botswana will head to the polls this Friday to vote in parliamentary elections. The incumbent Democratic Party, in power since 1966, is expected to win the vote.\nSome voters left their homes as early as 04.00 local time to be in time for the opening of polling stations two hours later, and voters moved through polling stations at a steady pace throughout the day.\nAbout 700,000 residents are registered to vote. Joseph Gaie, lecturer in political ethics at Botswana University in Gaborone, told the Voice of America news agency that a good turnout had been expected.\n\"Well a lot of people, elderly people take this as a duty - every five years they have to go and vote,\" he said. \"And then a lot of youth that have just come, this will be the first time that 18-year-olds vote, so they are very excited about it.\"\nVoting had proceeded without incidents or violence at polling stations, officials said. \"We have not received any complaints of intimidation from any of the political parties,\" said the head of the Southern African Development Community observer mission Francisco Madeira.\nThe two major opposition parties, the Botswana National Front and the Botswana Congress Party, are hoping to do much better this time than in previous elections and have indicated they may cooperate in parliament after the poll.\nBotswana is a democracy that has seen consistent economic growth in the 43 years since it won independence from the UK. That growth is largely due to exports from the country's diamond industry, which suffered dramatically in the global economic crisis. The net effect of that has seen an 11.5% contraction of the economy in the year that ended in June. The election results will be known on Saturday. "}
{"id": "141485", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141485", "title": "Man charged with assaulting Leona Lewis", "text": ""}
{"id": "141486", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141486", "title": "Zimbabwe's MDC pulls out of unity government", "text": "Morgan Tsvangirai, the leader of the Zimbabwean Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) and the country's Prime Minister, has pulled out of the coalition government, accusing Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe of being \"dishonest and unreliable\".\nTsvangirai and his MDC party said that they would pull out from the government until outstanding issues in a power-sharing agreement between Tsvangirai and Mugabe were resolved. He made the announcement following a crisis meeting that was called after the MDC treasurer \ngeneral was indicted on charges of terrorism.\nTsvangirai said that \u201cthis party, for now, cannot renege on the people\u2019s mandate. However, it is our right to disengage from a dishonest and unreliable partner.\"\n\u201cIn this regard, whilst being in government we shall forthwith disengage from Zanu-PF [Mugabe's party] and in particular from cabinet and the council of ministers until such time as confidence and respect is restored among us,\u201d he said.\nThe Prime Minister, however, added that the pullout would most likely be only temporary, and that the MDC would still conduct some activities in the parliament. \"We are not really pulling out officially,\" Tsvangirai said.\nA spokesman for the Zanu-PF party responded to Tsvangirai's move. \u201cIf MDC wants to disengage [...] we don't have a problem with that. We were having problems with MDC, working together. We have been trying but it was not easy,\u201d said spokesman Ephraim Masawi.\nThe former Information and Publicity minister, Jonathan Moyo, who is a member of the Zanu-PF, accused the MDC of acting \"childishly\".\nThe Zimbabwean coalition government was launched eight months ago, after a heavily disputed election that was marred by violence. Tsvangirai obtained a majority of votes in the 2008 presidential elections, but decided to withdraw from a run-off election with Mugabe, claiming that Mugabe had used violence against his supporters. A deal was eventually made, under which Mugabe would retain his post, but Tsvangirai would assume the position of prime minister. Zanu-PF and Mugabe, however, have still been accused of being unwilling to give up their power or to reform."}
{"id": "141492", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141492", "title": "Zimbabwe's MDC pulls out of Zimbabwean unity government", "text": ""}
{"id": "141497", "revid": "11947", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141497", "title": "Baby survives being run over by train in Melbourne, Australia", "text": ""}
{"id": "141503", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141503", "title": "Crude oil prices reach one-year high", "text": "Prices for crude oil reached a one-year high on Friday, as increasing industrial production in the United States raised hopes that the economic recession might be easing.\nUS Crude oil futures gained for the seventh straight day, and has increased by 12.9% since October 7, and is now just above US$78 a barrel. The move came after a report released by the US Federal Reserve indicated a 0.7% rise in factory output.\nBrent crude oil was also up, gaining 76 cents to reach $76.99.\nPaul Crovo, an oil analyst based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania for PNC Capital Advisors, said that there were increasing hopes that the economy would rebound. \u201cThere continues to be optimism about an economic rebound. Prices have been rising on speculation that this will lead to a tightening of the supply-demand balance going forward,\u201d he said."}
{"id": "141504", "revid": "22784", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141504", "title": "Manchester/Lead article", "text": ""}
{"id": "141507", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141507", "title": "6.4 magnitude earthquake hits Indonesia", "text": "A strong, 6.4 magnitude earthquake stuck Indonesia on Friday, even as recovery efforts continued from the devastating tremors that hit there last month. \nThe earthquake caused some buildings to sway in the country's capital, Jakarta; however, there were no reports of injuries. According to officials, the earthquake's epicentre was in in the Sunda Strait, off the western coast of the island of Java.\nThe earthquake wasn't powerful enough to generate a tsunami, according to a Meteorology and Geophysics Agency official, Suhardjono.\nOn September 30, a powerful magnitude 7.6 earthquake struck Indonesia, causing landslides, destroying buildings, and killing over a thousand people. Cleanup and recovery efforts for that quake are still ongoing. Tremors frequently strike Indonesia and neighbouring vicinities, as it is positioned on an arc of fault lines."}
{"id": "141508", "revid": "11947", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141508", "title": "Baby unhurt after stroller is hit by train in Melbourne, Australia", "text": ""}
{"id": "141519", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141519", "title": "Buffalo, NY firefighter injured while battling blaze", "text": "At least one firefighter has been injured while battling a blaze on Buffalo, New York's East side early this morning. \nThe name, extent of his injuries and his condition are not yet known. According to firefighter radio communications, he has been taken to Erie County Medical Center \"for evaluation.\"\nThe blaze began in an attic, inside an abandoned 2 1/2 story wooden frame house at 189 Townsend in the city's East side at about 11:15 p.m. (EDT) Friday evening. The fire quickly spread out of control and firefighters focused their attention on protecting the neighboring house, also abandoned. The fire was extinguished at about 3:00 a.m., just over four hours after it started. Firefighters say \"the cause is under investigation.\"\nThis is the second fire in just over 24 hours to strike the city. Early Friday morning, a fire broke out inside another abandoned home on 133 School Street on the city's West side. Fire traveled to the neighboring occupied house causing extensive damage. Firefighters spent nearly an hour trying to put the fire out. No one was injured. Arson is suspected to be the cause of the blaze."}
{"id": "141521", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141521", "title": "Buffalo, NY Firefighter injured while battling blaze", "text": ""}
{"id": "141523", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141523", "title": "Politicians call for NY Sen. Monserrate to resign after assault conviction", "text": "New York State Senator Hiram Monserrate faced public calls for his resignation after he was found guilty Thursday of misdemeanor assault, in the criminal trial involving an alleged attack on his girlfriend Karla Giraldo. Monserrate will face sentencing on the misdemeanor assault conviction on December 4.\nThe misdemeanor assault conviction means Monserrate is guilty of \"recklessly causing physical injury\" to Giraldo. Monserrate could be sentenced to one year in jail for the misdemeanor assault conviction. \nThe prosecution had asserted that when Monserrate discovered that his girlfriend had the business card of another man, he chose to strike out at her. Monserrate entered a plea of not guilty to charges he sliced his girlfriend's face with broken glass during a conflict at their apartment on December 19, 2008. The defense team denied that the injury to the woman by Monserrate was intentional, instead claiming that the incident was \"an accident\" and the result of Monserrate tripping while bringing Giraldo a glass of water.\nQueens Supreme Court Justice William Erlbaum judged the case without a jury, as Monserrate waived his right for a trial before his peers. The group National Organization for Women had requested that the judge rule Monserrate should be given \"the maximum sentence allowable by law\". If he had been convicted of a felony, Democrat Sen. Monserrate could have automatically lost his New York State Senate seat. Monserrate did not testify during the criminal trial against him.\nThe New York chapter of the National Organization for Women criticized the decision of the judge for not convicting Monserrate of the felony charge, and urged the Democratic leadership of the New York Senate to remove Monserrate from office. New York state president of the National Organization for Women, Marcia Pappas stated: \"They need to expel him. The Democratic leadership needs to send a strong message to the women of New York state that they care about protecting women.\"\nIt is within the power of the New York Senate to initiate procedures to oust a sitting Senator. Leaders within the Democratic party in the New York Senate were debating whether to being proceedings to remove Monserrate from his seat. Senators are in the process of deciding whether or not to initiate disciplinary proceedings against Monserrate. John L. Sampson, Democratic Conference leader in the New York Senate, told the Associated Press on Friday that the Senate will review procedures in order to determine what to do with Monserrate. \"The leaders of our conference are discussing the potential for further action by the Senate,\" said Sampson in a statement in AM New York.\nThe legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, Blair Horner, told AM New York that it would be \"unprecedented in modern times\" for a sitting New York State Senator to hold office while serving time in jail. \"Obviously he can\u2019t vote from jail,\" he said.\nNew York City Council member Eric Gioia was the first Democratic politician to publicly request that Monserrate resign from his post as a member of the New York State Senate. Gioia released a statement Thursday which said: \"There is no room in government or in the Democratic Party for people who commit such heinous crimes against women. Hiram Monserrate must be swiftly removed from office. Elected officials should rightfully be held to a higher standard, and New Yorkers deserve better representation than a convicted perpetrator of domestic violence.\" Gioia stated that \"the circumstances revealed in the trial ... truly shock the conscience.\"\nOn Friday, Democratic New York State Senator Liz Krueger of Manhattan joined the call for Monserrate to resign. \"The justice system has determined that Mr. Monserrate has violated our laws and is guilty of a very disturbing and violent crime against a woman. Domestic violence is domestic violence, guilt is guilt. I believe Hiram Monserrate should not remain in the Senate,\" said Senator Krueger. According to NY1 News, Senator Krueger was the first woman politician to call for Monserrate's resignation. Senator Krueger stated: \"I don't believe being an elected official is a right. It is an honor and a privilege I believe I should be held to higher standards because I am an elected official and I believe my colleagues in the legislature should also be held to a higher standard. And so for me, this is simple: Mr. Monserrate, it's time to resign.\"\nSenator Krueger was later joined by female New York State Senator, Democrat Suzi Oppenheimer. Senator Oppenheimer released a statement which said: I am strong believer in our judicial system, and the Court has now spoken. Senator Monserrate has been convicted of assaulting his partner. Domestic violence has no place in civilized society. I have spent my life fighting for the rights of abused women, which have been the subject of this trial.\"\nDemocratic New York State Senator Brian Foley also called for Monserrate to resign. State Senator Foley released a statement saying: \"If Sen. Monserrate chooses not to resign, I will use my position as Senator to introduce a measure for his expulsion/impeachment from the Senate. I will do so, without regard to party affiliation, because of the conduct Sen. Monserrate has exhibited. And I will do so to send a clear message to every individual in New York State: Violence against women will not be acceptable regardless of your position in society. For the sake of the New York State Senate, I sincerely hope Sen. Monserrate will heed my call and resign immediately. The consequence of his refusal to do so will be a forced expulsion from the Senate.\"\nDavid Valesky, another Democratic New York State Senator, joined the calls by his fellow State Senators Liz Krueger and Brian Foley in calling for Monserrate's resignation. State Senator Valesky said he would \"work with other members of the Senate\" in order to get Monserrate removed from his political office. \"The Post-Standard\" reported that Senator Valesky released a statement saying he was \"disgusted\" by Monserrate's \"deplorable\" behavior. Senator Valesky said in his statement: \"It is my hope that Mr. Monserrate will do the right thing for this body and for the people of this state and resign his post immediately. If he chooses not to do so, I will work with other members of the Senate to seek his removal. We are currently reviewing the internal options for such removal, and I am confident we will act expeditiously to end this matter.\" \nDemocratic New York State Senator Neil Breslin said that Monserrate remaining in his political office would negatively impact the New York State Senate to earn the trust of the public. \"We, the Senate, have been through so much this past year. It is time for us to take the steps necessary to earn back the public's trust. Hiram Monserrate remaining a member of the Senate contradicts this effort,\" said Senator Breslin. \nDarrel Aubertine, a fellow Democratic New York State Senate member, also called for Monserrate's resignation. Senator Aubertine released a statement saying that if Monserrate does not resign, the New York State Senate \"must take appropriate action immediately\". Senator Aubertine said that \"For the good of New York State and the Senate, he should step down.\" \nBrooklyn-based New York State Senator Martin Golden, a Republican, told the \"New York Daily News\" he agreed with the calls for Monserrate to be removed from office. \"As far as I'm concerned, (expletive) him; he should be gone. He should not be sitting in that Senate, and if someone thinks otherwise, I'd like some of the crack they're smoking,\" said Senator Golden.\nJoseph Crowley, a United States Congressman and chairman of the Democratic party in Queens, New York, said that Monserrate should resign. \"The New York Times\" noted that the lack of support by Representative Crowley was significant, as Crowley had previously helped arrange for Monserrate to attain his political office as State Senator in the first place. \nCrowley said that if Monserrate did not resign, he would support another individual to challenge Monserrate in the next year's Democratic primary for his office. \"I think there is a tremendous amount of emphasis, and rightly so, that this was domestic violence. I don\u2019t think it\u2019s something our party wants to be associated with, and it\u2019s not representative of the constituency which elected him,\" said Representative Crowley.\nDemocratic New York State Assembly member Patricia Eddington said of Monserrate's acquittal on the more serious felony assault charge: \"It\u2019s just another example of how abuse of women is condoned and accepted.\" Assembly member Eddington stated: \"I don\u2019t think he should be permitted to be a senator.\"\nMonserrate is a former New York City police officer. Prior to becoming a member of the New York State Senate, he was a city councilman. He became a member of the New York State Senate weeks after the alleged conflict with Giraldo, and was made chair of the committee overseeing consumer affairs. Along with Democrat Pedro Espada Jr., Monserrate started a shift in control of the Senate by aligning with the Republican Party. Monserrate is currently allied with the Democrats in the New York Senate, and if he is removed from his seat the ratio of Democrats to Republicans would be 31-30."}
{"id": "141537", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141537", "title": "International pressure mounts on Guinean military junta to withdraw from elections", "text": "International pressure is mounting on Guinea's military junta to withdraw from the country's planned elections by the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the European Union.\nThe Hague court announced in a statement on Wednesday that it is deciding whether the events of September 28 amount to crimes against humanity, when people died at a sports stadium in the capital Conakry. Rights groups say soldiers shot 157 people, with thousands injured and women raped, claims denied by Guinea's rulers. The United Nations is also investigating these claims separately.\nAlso on Wednesday, Karel de Gucht, the EU's development chief added to calls for a trial citing \"an act of brutality never seen before\". \nAfrican leaders called for the military junta to pull out of the upcoming elections in three months, ahead of the ultimatum from the African Union today. Captain Moussa Dadis Camara, the country's leader, had promised not to take part in the January presidential elections when he took power, but has since said that he may run, causing many people to protest.\nHowever, a spokesman for the Guinean junta dismissed reports of increasing tensions. \"Guinea is doing well, we experience more external than internal pressure,\" Idrissa Cherif said in a televised broadcast in Burkina Faso.\nIt is also likely that sanctions will be applied, as hinted by Nigeria, which currently holds the chairmanship of the Economic Community of West African States."}
{"id": "141548", "revid": "126901", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141548", "title": "Ali Bongo sworn in as president of Gabon", "text": "Ali Bongo Ondimba was sworn in as the president of the African country of Gabon on Friday, after winning the August 30 presidential elections. He took the oath of office in the capital Libreville, at the Presidential Palace.\n\"I swear to use all my efforts for the good of the people of Gabon, to ensure their well-being and protect them, to respect and defend the Constitution and guarantee freedom, to consciously carry out my duties and ensure justice for all,\" he said at the inauguration, raising his right hand.\nIn a speech, Bongo said that he wanted to put an end to injustice and corruption. \"I wish for a Gabon free from corruption and injustice, I wish for a Gabon where the elites move freely and more of them come up, I wish for a Gabon where merit is appreciated, and where the right punishment is given to those who break the law,\" he said in front of a crowd of invited guests.\nBongo was sworn in four days after the country's constitutional court confirmed his victory in the presidential elections, which had been challenged by nine of the opposition candidates, alleging fraud. \nBongo had won 42% of the vote, official results said. Most independent electoral observers said they thought that the elections were fair.\nBongo, aged 50, is the son of Omar Bongo, who was the leader of Gabon for four decades before he died this June."}
{"id": "141549", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141549", "title": "International pressure mounts on Guinea", "text": ""}
{"id": "141551", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141551", "title": "Pakistani military launches ground offensive against Taliban and al-Qaeda", "text": "Pakistani officials say the military has launched its much anticipated ground offensive against the and al-Qaeda in the tribal region. Fierce fighting has broken out and dozens of casualties are reported on both sides.\nThis mountainous district forms part of the Afghan border, which United States officials call the most dangerous place in the world. It is considered to be a stronghold for the Taliban. An attack by US drones on this area killed the former Pakistani Taliban chief and it shelters the new leader . It is also has training camps for suicide bombers. The US has put pressure on the Pakistani government to deal with militancy in the area.\n30,000 troops which had been moved into the area over the past few months moved out of their bases in and around South Waziristan on Saturday, hours after top military and political leaders were briefed by army chief General in the capital, . The troops advanced north towards the stronghold of , west towards , and , and east towards , .\nPakistan has experienced a wave of terror attacks, including suicide blasts targeting international and security organizations, coordinated attacks around the country's cultural center, Lahore, and an assault on the army's headquarters near Islamabad. Some 175 people have died in the past two weeks. The government has blamed the Pakistani Taliban, which is based in South Waziristan, for the violence.\n\"The recent upsurge of terror incidents in the country were condemned and it was agreed that these elements pose a serious threat to the sovereignty and integrity of the state [...] In the given circumstances, the national consensus is reaffirmed to establish and maintain the writ of the state to weed out these elements,\" said Pakistani Prime Minister .\nHours ahead of Saturday's offensive, Pakistani authorities imposed a curfew and turned off mobile phone service in parts of South Waziristan in the district of , as well as in and .\nDespite the military's superiority in numbers, former security chief of the tribal regions, Mahmood Shah, told the (VOA) news agency it would not be an easy battle. \"This 30,000 against 10,000 is a conventional battle,\" he said. \"The militants do not fight conventional battles.\" He also said he expects the military will face an enemy deeply entrenched in the mountainous and remote region. He also cautions that militants will likely launch suicide attacks elsewhere.\nTop army spokesman Major General has stated that the offensive could last up to two months, but that because of impending climatic conditions they would try to complete the attack by snowfall. A formal announcement on the start of the operation is expected by Prime Minister Gilani.\nOfficials have said that four soldiers were wounded during clashes and that remote-controlled bomb attacks killed two soldiers in and one in South Waziristan. The three soldiers' bodies have been taken to . There are also unconfirmed reports of militant deaths.\nA senior military official has said that initially the objective is to establish footholds, but that they would mobilise three divisions of the military, paramilitary and police, with the final total rising up to 60,000 troops. According to a senior government official in Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal belt, the objective is to remove all militants from the area. He also said that \"[t]his has been in the works for a long time. It was only a question of timing and the timing was decided. Troops were in place and they moved in.\"\nThis is not the first time the military has launched an offensive in the tribal region. But those previous operations were not successful, mainly because militants killed sympathetic tribal leaders and opposition political parties refused to offer their support. \nExperts estimate the number of militants between 10,000 and 12,000 from the movement in South Waziristan and up to 25,000 across Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal belt, with up to 5,000 fighters supporting the Taliban.\nFor the past several months since the anti-Taliban offensive in and around Swat Valley, the military has built up its forces around South Waziristan.\nManuel Bessler, head of the United Nations's Office for Coordinating Humanitarian Affairs in Pakistan, told Voice of America that many civilians have fled the area. \"We had IDPs, internally displaced people, since May about 77,000, up to 80,000,\" he said. \"Now with this more intense fighting and military operation inside [South] Waziristan, we have a daily outflow of 70 to 100 families from the area.\" Official figures put at 90,000 the people displaced from South Waziristan since August."}
{"id": "141553", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141553", "title": "33 killed by firecracker blaze in India", "text": "At least 33 people in the Tamil Nadu state of India were killed on Friday after an explosion set fire to a firecracker warehouse, police said.\nThe blaze started in the town of Pallipatu, located about forty kilometres from the state capital of Chennai.\n\"We have recovered 33 charred bodies,\" a senior police official, C. Durairaj, said to the Agence France-Presse news agency.\nHe said that six more people had been hurt and were hospitalised. Many of the victims were people purchasing firecrackers ahead of the Hindu festival of lights, Diwali.\nThe fire began at a rice mill that had been temporarily converted into a warehouse for firecrackers. \"The explosion was triggered by a firecracker which burst in the congested warehouse and people did not have time to escape,\" Durairaj said.\nFires are frequent in India in factories and warehouses storing firecrackers, due in part to relaxed safety standards. No less than seventeen people were killed at another fireworks factory in Tamil Nadu earlier in 2009. In 2007, 32 people were killed by a fire in the state of Bihar."}
{"id": "141560", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141560", "title": "Pakistan launches assault on Taliban", "text": ""}
{"id": "141565", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141565", "title": "One million protest against Spanish abortion liberalisation", "text": "According to organisers, more than one million people have marched across Madrid, Spain to oppose plans to liberalise abortion law. Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero wants to introduce abortion on demand, allowing women as young as 16 to have abortions without their parents' consent. Currently women may only terminate pregnancies in the predominantly Catholic country under specific circumstances.\nThe 1.5-kilometer (one-mile) march contained members from 42 religious and civil society groups, with 600 buses and several planes used to bring anti-abortion supporters, according to organisers. The protest was also supported by the conservative opposition People's Party and the Roman Catholic Church.\nThe march started under a banner emblazoned with \"Every Life Matters\", and tens of thousands of supporters carried banners and flags with \"For Life, Women and Motherhood\" and \"Women Against Abortion\" and \"Madrid 2009, Capital of Life\", along the route to the Plaza de Independencia, where many more waited.\nA spokesman for one of the rally organiser, \"HazteOir\" (Make Yourself Heard), reported that approximately 1.5 million people had participated in the rally and march. The Madrid regional government put the figures at around 1.2 million.\nThe supporters want the government to withdraw the draft law currently up for debate in the parliament in November, which would introduce abortion on demand within the first 14 weeks of a pregnancy, based on laws currently in place in most other European Union countries. It would replace Spain's law introduced in 1985, which allows abortion in cases of rape, when there are signs of foetal abnormality, or when a woman's physical or psychological health is at risk. This latter category has been used to justify 112,000 abortions in 2007, a majority of which occurred in Spain.\n\"This new law is a barbarity. In this country, they protect animals more than human beings,\" said Jose Carlos Felicidad, aged 67, a retired naval technician, who had come to the rally in Madrid from the town of Algeciras.\nPrime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero spoke in defence of the draft law, saying the state should not \"intervene in the free and private decision of a woman, who is the one who has to take on the responsibility of a pregnancy during her entire life.\" According to the government, the law is about respect and women's rights, and that alternatives will be explained first to anyone wishing to terminate a pregnancy. It also said that the new law will make abortion less dangerous, by making sure that the procedure is not done after 22 weeks.\nThe prime minister has passed a series of social reforms since he came to power in 2004. Among them were measures to legalise gay marriage, give more rights to transsexuals, and permit fast-track divorces."}
{"id": "141567", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141567", "title": "Hundreds of thousands protest against Spanish abortion liberalisation", "text": ""}
{"id": "141576", "revid": "11947", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141576", "title": "Baby unhurt after stroller hit by train in Melbourne, Australia", "text": ""}
{"id": "141581", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141581", "title": "Bull moose shot by police in Alaska", "text": "University of Alaska Anchorage campus police shot a bull moose on Thursday after it became entangled within fencing material. \nThe animal was reportedly in an \"agitated state\" when it got its antlers stuck in a fence used to support young trees. Attempting to free itself, the moose struggled as it began moving towards the campus's Fine Arts Building. Police blocked off the area and alerted the Alaska Department of Fish and Game before they shot the bull as it became an \"imminent threat\".\nPolice chief Dale Pittman said that the preferred method of taking down the animal was with tranquilizers, but the university's police are not trained to use such drugs.\nPittman said, \"In order to keep our community safe, UAA Police made the decision to put the animal down rather than risk injuries or human death as a result of a moose-human encounter\". He added, \"We do not like having to use deadly force, even on animals\"."}
{"id": "141591", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141591", "title": "Gun battle between gang members and police kills 12 in Rio de Janeiro", "text": "Two policemen were killed after gang members shot down their helicopter during a battle with police in Rio de Janerio, Brazil. Twelve people were killed on the ground, including two civilians. Ten of those are said to have been gang members.\nAccording to military police commander Mario Sergio Duarte, the pilot was shot in the leg by a gang member from the ground. The pilot then attempted an emergency landing, but lost control crashing into a football field, setting the helicopter ablaze. The pilot and one other policemen were able to escape the wreckage with minor injuries.\nOfficials say the fighting started on Saturday when a gang from the Morro do S\u00e3o Jo\u00e3o Favela attempted to invade and seize control of the neighboring favela Morro dos Macacos. The Comando Vermelho gang attempted to take the neighboring favela, a territory operated by the Amigo dos Amigos gang when police intervened.\nAt least 100 police officers and Special Police Operations Battalion troops continued the gunfight with the alleged gang members on the ground after the helicopter crashed. The alleged gang members then set as many as nine buses ablaze in response to police intrusion. Fabio Nascimento, a bus driver who had his bus set on fire, said to Agence France-Presse that as many as 15 armed masked men forced him and the passengers to leave the bus, yelling at them to \"get out, get out, we are going to light it on fire!\"\nOfficials say that Saturday's battle was the worst in Rio since the city was named the host city of the 2016 Olympic Games two weeks ago. In Rio, an estimated 6,000 people were killed in 2008 due to gang-related violence. At least one person was arrested in connection with Saturday's violence.\nIn an effort to help curb the gang violence in Rio, the Justice Ministry made an offer to S\u00e9rgio Cabral, Governor of Rio, to send national guard troops to the city, but the governor denied the request. Cabral said that the city is properly equipped to handle the violence."}
{"id": "141593", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141593", "title": "Drugs war in Rio kills 12", "text": ""}
{"id": "141594", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141594", "title": "Gun battle between drug lords and police kill 12 in Rio de Janeiro", "text": ""}
{"id": "141598", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141598", "title": "Suicide attack hits Iranian Revolutionary Guard commanders", "text": "Iran's state-sponsored Fars news agency report at least twenty killed, including senior members of the Revolutionary Guard, and another forty wounded, by a suicide bombing in Pishin, a city in the country's south-eastern Sistan-Baluchistan province.\nAccording to the agency, terrorists killed both local tribal heads and senior army officers. \"In this terrorist act, General Nur-Ali Shushtari, deputy commander of the Revolutionary Guards land army, General Mohammad-Zadeh, commander of the Revolutionary Guards in Sistan-Baluchestan province, the Guards' commander for the town of Iranshahr and the commander of the Amir al-Momenin unit died.\" According to IRNA, the state news agency, Rajab Ali Mohammadzadeh, the Guard's chief provincial commander, is among those killed.\nThe commanders were meeting with tribal leaders of Sunni and Shiite communities in the region.\nThis is the biggest attack against the Revolutionary Guards in recent years. Parliamentary speaker Ali Larijani condemned it live on state radio, and the announcement to parliament was broadcast on television; \"[w]e express our condolences for their martyrdom. The intention of the terrorists was definitely to disrupt security in Sistan-Baluchistan Province.\"\nA Revolutionary Guard statement on TV claimed \"foreign involvement\"; \"[s]urely foreign elements, particularly those linked to the global arrogance, were involved in this attack.\"\nThe region is predominantly made up of the Sunni Baluchi ethnic group. Some are strongly opposed to the mainly Shiite Iranian government and Shia rule.\nIn the past, Iran has accused the Jundallah (Soldiers of God) of carrying out terrorist activities in the province, which borders Afghanistan and Pakistan. Although, no clearly identified group claims responsibility for such."}
{"id": "141601", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141601", "title": "Commanders in Iran's elite Revolutionary Guard assassinated", "text": ""}
{"id": "141606", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141606", "title": "IBEX sattelite releases first all sky map", "text": ""}
{"id": "141608", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141608", "title": "UN claims over a quarter million human trafficking victims in EU", "text": "The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) claims there could be nearly 270,000 victims of human trafficking in the European Union (EU) \u2014 over thirty times the last estimate from 2006. The UN's figures in the \"Trafficking in Persons; Analysis on Europe\" report highlights this and, taking advantage of European Anti-Trafficking Day, they are calling for greater efforts to combat the illegal trade.\nToday's announcement aims to bring awareness to the plight of victims, often forced to work illegally in prostitution or labour jobs after being smuggled across borders. Antonio Maria Costa, UNODC executive director, highlighted that few human traffickers are caught, blaming police for not acting sufficiently.\nIn the six years since the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children came into force, the majority of EU countries have taken measures to criminalise trafficking both for sexual exploitation and forced labour.\nCosta highlighted that around one in 100,000 people were convicted for human trafficking in Europe, noting that this figure was less than \"for rare crimes like kidnapping.\" Only 9,000 victims were reported in 2006.\n\"Perhaps police are not finding the traffickers and victims because they are not looking for them,\" said Costa.\nUNODC asserts the majority of victims are women, forced into prostitution; men are forced to work on building sites or farms, and ten percent of the victims of human trafficking in Europe are children, up from four percent in 2003.\n\"Lives should not be for sale or for rent on a continent that prohibits slavery and forced labour, and prides itself on upholding human dignity\", Costa asserts."}
{"id": "141611", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141611", "title": "UN claims they may be around 270,000 victims of human trafficking in the EU", "text": ""}
{"id": "141615", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141615", "title": "Gun battle between gang members and police kill 12 in Rio de Janeiro", "text": ""}
{"id": "141618", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141618", "title": "Hurricane Rick becomes Category 5 storm", "text": "Hurricane Rick in the Eastern Pacific became an extremely powerful Category 5 hurricane on Saturday, the first in the region since 2002's Hurricane Kenna. Rick had winds of 180 mph (285 km/h), making it the second-strongest East Pacific tropical cyclone on record, but has since weakened slightly.\nThe storm is currently situated about 500 miles south-southeast of Cabo San Lucas, and is moving west-northwestward. Forecasters say Rick will eventually take a turn towards the northeast, bringing it towards the southern of Mexico. Officials advise residents throughout the region to keep a close eye on the storm's progress over the coming days. \nThe storm formed just a few days ago, and quickly grew to an extremely dangerous Category 5 cyclone. \"Rick is probably going to go into the record books as one of the most rapidly intensifying hurricanes,\" said Hugh Cobb, a forecaster. \nRick is the seventeenth named storm of the 2009 Pacific hurricane season."}
{"id": "141626", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141626", "title": "Mark Webber wins 2009 Brazilian Grand Prix, Jenson Button and Brawn win championship", "text": "Red Bull driver Mark Webber won the FIA Formula One 2009 Grande Pr\u00eamio Petrobras do Brasil Saturday at Aut\u00f3dromo Jos\u00e9 Carlos Pace, S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil. \nRobert Kubica came in second for BMW Sauber, and Lewis Hamilton finished third for McLaren.\nWebber's teammate Sebastian Vettel started from 15th place on the starting grid after he couldn't come up from the first qualification session, but finished 4th in front of his championship rival.\nBrawn Grand Prix driver Jenson Button finished 5th to win his title. His team, representing the remnants of Honda Racing, also won the 2009 Constructors' championship after leading through the season.\nThe team's road to victory was not smooth \u2014 a scandal broke with the \"double-decker diffuser\" of the BGP001 car. After the FIA declared them legal and other teams started to borrow the idea, Brawn sped up by collecting points on the way to the title.\nKimi R\u00e4ikk\u00f6nen (Ferrari) and S\u00e9bastien Buemi (Toro Rosso) dropped one place from the starting grid and finished behind Button.\nButton's teammate and possible vice-champion Rubens Barrichello, who won pole position on his home soil after nearly three hours of a long rainy qualification session, had a tire puncture on the dying laps of the race and was forced to make an unscheduled third visit to his pit. He closed in the top eight.\nThis Brazil GP featured Japanese rookie driver, Kamui Kobayashi (Toyota), who replaced recovering Glock. In his first race this young driver qualified 11th and finished 10th in the race.\nAdrian Sutil qualified 3rd for Force India, but was taken out by Jarno Trulli (Toyota) on the first lap."}
{"id": "141628", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141628", "title": "Philippines prepares for new typhoon", "text": "The Philippines has stockpiled emergency supplies and put rescue teams on a standby in preparation for Typhoon Lupit, which is expected to hit the country by Wednesday. It comes only weeks after several other typhoons, which killed almost a thousand people and displaced millions.\nThe government weather service announced that the outer areas of the storm could affect , the country's main island, and have winds up to 175 kilometres per hour.\nLupit's eye remained in the same area for several hours on Sunday, about 1,000 kilometres from the eastern shores of Luzon; however, meteorologists predict the storm could move closer to the Philippines.\nA weather service chief said that areas vulnerable to flooding should be evacuated. \"Those in critical areas should be evacuated now that there is still time. It would be more difficult to rescue people in the middle of a typhoon,\" said Prisco Nilo."}
{"id": "141631", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141631", "title": "Zimababwe Zanu-PF party dismisses Tsvangirai unity boycott", "text": "Zimbabwe's ZANU-PF party has said that government business will continue despite the opposition party's decision to stop working with its unity government partner. A spokesman for president Robert Mugabe dismissed the boycott by the leader of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) Morgan Tsvangirai as \"needless excitement\".\nTsvangirai and his party had pulled out of the coalition government on Friday, saying that Mugabe had been \"dishonest and unreliable\".\nSpokesman George Charamba said to the Sunday Mail newspaper that \"the MDC-T has disengaged from nothing. It's sound and fury signifying nothing. The MDC-T president knows that. It's a poor protest,\" he said.\nCharamba said that Mugabe has been too busy with ceremonial duties to react to Tsvangirai's boycott. \"I suppose the president will find time when the right time comes,\" he said.\nThe Sunday Mail quoted Charamba as saying that a cabinet meeting will go ahead as scheduled on Tuesday and that binding decisions will be made despite the MDC boycott. \"As you will certainly see on Tuesday, cabinet will be held. The agenda for the meeting has been circulated and decisions that are binding will be taken. Remember, cabinet does not function through a quorum.\"\nTensions between Mugabe's ZANU-PF party and the MDC have been constant since the unity government was formed early this year. Regional leaders pressured the parties to share power after last year's disputed and violence-plagued elections.\nThe latest crisis was sparked by the re-detention of Roy Bennett, a white farmer who the MDC has nominated to be deputy minister of agriculture. Bennett is awaiting trial on terrorism charges, and already spent a month in prison earlier this year before being released on bail. The MDC has said that he is innocent.\nTsvangirai said on Friday that if the political crisis escalates further, the only solution would be to hold new elections under international supervision."}
{"id": "141632", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141632", "title": "Israel cabinet rejects UN war crimes report", "text": "The Israeli cabinet has rejected last week's resolution of the United Nations Human Rights Council, which endorsed a report accusing the state of war crimes during the Gaza conflict, accusing the UN of a double standard. \nThe cabinet said that that the army's three-week assault on the Gaza Strip last December and January was legitimate self-defense.\n\"Israel will defend itself at any price,\" said Cabinet Minister Yossi Peled. \"This is a duty and a right.\"\nThe Goldstone Report, endorsed by the UN Human Right Council on Friday, accused Israel of war crimes during the Gaza conflict. The Israeli Cabinet, however, responded by saying that its country was responding to years of Palestinian rocket attacks from Gaza. The 575-page report had also accused Hamas of war crimes, but devoted 30 out of its 31 chapters to Israel. Israeli actions are reported to have killed at least 1,100 Palestinians, many of them civilians.\nCabinet Minster Yuval Shteinitz accused the international community of a double standard. Steinitz said it was an anti-Semitic resolution, in which the same right of self-defense that is allowed to the United States in Afghanistan and Russia in Chechnya is denied to Israel in the Gaza Strip.\nThe Goldstone Report will now go to the UN Security Council, which could refer it to the International Criminal Court in The Hague."}
{"id": "141652", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141652", "title": "US free speech lawyer Marc Randazza discusses Glenn Beck parody", "text": "\"Wikinews\" interviewed US free speech lawyer Marc Randazza, on his defense of a parody website which satirizes American political commentator Glenn Beck. Florida resident Isaac Eiland-Hall created the website in September, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics \"to spread lies and misinformation\". \nThe case \"Beck v. Eiland-Hall\" is currently before the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva, Switzerland. \"Wikinews\" previously reported on the case, in an article earlier this month, \"US free speech lawyer defends satire of Glenn Beck\".\nBackground.\nThe Eiland-Hall's website is located at the domain \"www.GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlIn1990.com\". Its premise is derived from a joke statement made by Gilbert Gottfried about fellow comedian Bob Saget.\nUsers of the Internet discussion community Fark first applied the joke to Beck, and it then became popular on several social media sites.\nEiland-Hall saw the discussion on Fark, and created a website about it. The website asserts it does not believe the rumors to be true, commenting, \"[b]ut we think Glenn Beck definitely uses tactics like this to spread lies and misinformation.\" In an interview with \"Ars Technica\", Eiland-Hall said the website was \"using Beck's tactics against him\". The website was created on September 1, and just two days later attorneys for Beck's company Mercury Radio Arts took action. Beck's lawyers sent letters to the domain name registrar where they referred to the domain name itself as \"defamatory\", but failed to get the site removed.\nBeck filed a formal complaint with the Switzerland-based agency of the United Nations, WIPO, who operate under regulations laid out by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. Beck asserts the website's usage is libelous, bad faith, and could befuddle potential consumers. Beck's complaint was filed under the process called the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy. This policy allows trademark owners to begin an administrative action by complaining that a certain domain registration is in \"bad faith\". Beck argues the site should be shut down because it is an infringment upon his trademark in his own name, \"Glenn Beck\".\nEiland-Hall retained Randazza as his attorney after receiving threatening letters from legal representatives of Beck. Randazza replied to WIPO on the 28th of last month, contending the site is \"protected political speech\", due to it's \"satirical political humor\". Randazza stated, \"[e]ven an imbecile would look at this Web site and know that it\u2019s a parody.\" In his legal brief, Randazza compared the website to other Internet memes, such as \"All your base are belong to us\" and video parodies of the German film \"Downfall\".\n\"We are here because Mr. Beck wants [the] Respondent's [web site owner] website shut down. He wants it shut down because Respondent's website makes a poignant and accurate satirical critique of Mr. Beck by parodying Beck's very rhetorical style,\" Randazza states in the brief. Additional points in the brief comment on Beck's style of reporting, and highlight a controversial statement made by him when interviewing a Muslim US Congressman. Beck said to Representative Keith Ellison, \"I like Muslims, I've been to mosques. ... And I have to tell you, I have been nervous about this interview because what I feel like saying is, sir, prove to me that you are not working with our enemies.\" According to the Citizen Media Law Project, the website's joke premise takes advantage of \"a perceived similarity between Beck's rhetorical style and the Gottfried routine\".\nRandazza argues in the response filed on behalf of Eiland-Hall that Beck is using the process of the WIPO court to infringe the free speech rights of his client; \"Beck is attempting to use this transnational body to circumvent and subvert the Respondent's constitutional rights [to freedom of speech],\" he wrote. Randazza cites the U.S. Supreme Court case, \"Hustler Magazine v. Falwell\", in arguing that Beck's attorneys advised him against filing legal action in a U.S. court because the website would likely be seen as a form of parody and due to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, such legal action would not be successful.\nOn September 29, Randazza sent a request to Beck's representatives, asking that their client agree to stipulate to the United States Constitution, and especially to the First Amendment, during the case before the WIPO. In the request, Randazza quotes a statement from Beck himself about the usage of international law by United States citizens, Beck said, \"[o]nce we sign our rights over to international law, the Constitution is officially dead.\" Randazza wrote in the request, \"I am certain that neither party wishes to see First Amendment rights subordinated to international trademark principles, thus unwittingly proving Mr. Beck's point. Lest this case become an example of international law causing damage to the constitutional rights that both of our clients hold dear, I respectfully request that your client agree to stipulate to the application of American constitutional law to this case.\"\nCommentators likened the legal conflict between Beck and the site to the Streisand effect, a phenomenon where an individual's attempt to censor material on the Internet in turn proves to make the material itself more public. \"Techdirt\" remarked Beck should have ignored the website, and instead his attempts to take it down served to legitimize it. Gawker.com noted that media have written about the website because Beck attempted to shut it down, and \"Politics Daily\" observed that Beck's legal action served to increase publicity for the site.\nInterview.\n\"' Prior to your involvement in the \"Beck v. Eiland-Hall\" case, what related legal experience have you had specifically related to the legal concepts of the case?\nMarc Randazza: I am both a First Amendment lawyer and an intellectual property lawyer. I practice in these areas, write on those areas, and taught them at the law school level. Given that these are my areas of expertise, this case was directly in my strike zone.\n Why did you agree to represent Isaac Eiland-Hall? What interested you about the case?\nMR: I took this case because of my sense of patriotism demanded it, as did my feelings about maintaining good karma. I became a First Amendment lawyer because I believe deeply in the Constitution. As my career has gone on, I've seen that often wealthy and powerful people are awfully thin skinned about criticism, and they use their money and power to attempt to silence \"the little guy.\" However, when that happens, the guy who gets pushed around suffers, but so do all of us. When one citizen's constitutional rights are threatened, all of our rights are threatened, and I'm not letting that happen on my watch.\nIsaac was being bullied, he was worried, and he couldn't afford a lawyer. After we spoke, he seemed like the kind of client I would be proud to represent, so I agreed to handle his case.\n\"' In your response brief in the \"Beck v. Eiland-Hall\" case, you wrote, \"Mr. Beck has all but begged to become the subject of a meme.\" Are you familiar with the concept of the term the \"Streisand effect\"? How do you think the Streisand effect applies to this case and to Glenn Beck's situation with regard to the Internet meme, and the website?\nMR: I am familiar with that concept. This case clearly proved that the effect exists and should be treated as a law of nature. Had Mr. Beck simply ignored this meme, it likely would have died out. Most internet memes die quickly. The one thing that breathed life into this meme was Mr. Beck's reaction to it.\n You wrote in the conclusion to the Eiland-Hall response brief, \"there can be only one purpose to filing this complaint: as an attempt to silence a critic because he doesn't like being criticized.\" Can you explain your argument that Beck's legal actions are intended only to silence criticism?\nMR: It seems very clear that this is not about trademark infringement. Trademark law serves to protect consumers from being confused as to the source or origin of goods. This isn't a trademark infringement case. It is an attempt to litigate a defamation case in a forum that might not pay deference to the First Amendment.\n On September 29, 2009, you requested that Glenn Beck agree to stipulate to the application of the United States Constitution, and also especially to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Can you explain your rationale for this request? Have you heard back from Beck's attorneys about this request?\nMR: Mr. Beck has publicly stated, many times over, that he is offended at the thought of international law trumping the U.S. constitution. I presumed that he would not want that to happen in this case. His attorneys have not responded to my request.\n\"' What are the next steps that will occur in the \"Beck v. Eiland-Hall\" case?\nMR: I presume that the arbitration panel will decide this case in my client's favor.\n Do you think that Glenn Beck will bring legal actions related to the Eiland-Hall website in the United States? How do you think such legal action would fare, specifically with regard to claims of libel/defamation?\nMR: I don't think so, but I've seen many frivolous, stupid, and ultimately disastrous defamation suits filed in my career. If you look at page 2 of my , it will articulate our position on that perfectly.\n An article in the UK news magazine The First Post commented that Beck's argument that the domain name of the Eiland-Hall website is itself defamatory \"looks like a first in cyber law\". Would you agree with this assessment? Have there been other similar cases with regard to this issue in cyber law?\nMR: It really is not all that novel of an issue. It is the first time that anyone has claimed that a mere domain name is defamatory, but big corporations have filed many wipo actions to try and get rid of \"sucks\" sites. So, while the exact facts are a new one to me, there are well worn grooves in the road that govern the legal concepts in this case.\n\"' Are there any other points regarding the \"Beck v. Eiland-Hall\" case that you would like to elaborate or explain?\nMR: I'd just like to say a few things about my opposing counsel in this case. Initially, they were subject to criticism for taking the case, and I am strongly against that. I think that the one thing that is lost in this story is how hard their job is. I've got the easy side. I'm on the side of truth, justice, the constitution, free speech, apple pie, and baseball. They have the misfortune of representing the bad guy, the blowhard, and they had to be very creative in order to find a way to try and do what he wanted and still maintain their ethics. A chimp could do my job. And frankly, a chimp could do their job if he didn't care about ethics.\nTo represent their side of the debate ethically and honorably is difficult, and I've rarely seen lawyers in their position behave with any sense of ethics or decency. They have done so. While I disagree with their legal theories, it has been an honor to have them as adversaries, and I wouldn't think twice about working on the same side of a case with them one day.\n\"' Mr. Randazza, thank you for taking the time to participate in this interview with \"Wikinews\"."}
{"id": "141657", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141657", "title": "Hurricane Rick a powerful Category 5 storm", "text": ""}
{"id": "141660", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141660", "title": "Morgan Tsvangirai", "text": ""}
{"id": "141661", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141661", "title": "Mark Webber wins 2009 Brazilian Grand Prix, Jenson Button and Brawn wins championship", "text": ""}
{"id": "141667", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141667", "title": "Kidnappers release two aid workers in Darfur, Sudan after more than 100 days", "text": "Two members of Irish aid agency GOAL, kidnapped in Sudan's Darfur region last July, were freed on Sunday, and are \"in good health,\" according to Abdel Baqi al-Jailani Sudan's Minister for Humanitarian Affairs. Sharon Commins and Hilda Kawuki say they are \"thrilled\" to be free at last.\nCapture and release.\nIrish citizen Commins, 32, and her Ugandan colleague Hilda Kawuki, 42, were working for GOAL in a compound run by the charity in the North Darfur town of Kutum. Armed men seized them on July 3.\nFollowing their release early Sunday morning they described their captivity as a \"difficult time\", and thanked everyone who had worked to secure their freedom in a joint statement released through the GOAL. They were, \"naturally thrilled to be released after such a long period in captivity\".\n\"We know it must have been a traumatic period for our families especially and for our friends,\" they said. \"It was of course, a difficult time - but we found strength in each other and in our friendship.\" They also could \"hardly wait to get home\" to spend time with their families.\nAl-Gilani indicated the pair were in Kutum and due to fly to Khartoum later the same day prior to them respectively returning to Ireland and Uganda.\nJohn O'Shea, president of GOAL, told AFP by telephone that, \"[w]e are all relieved,\" and that all at the charity were particularly happy for their families. \"We don't yet know when they will go home but we hope it is as soon as possible.\"\nNo ransom paid.\nCountering claims earlier in the year that the kidnappers demanded million for the pair's release, al-Gilani stressed \"no ransom was paid,\". adding that local tribal chiefs pressured the kidnappers into freeing the aid workers.\nIncreased hostility and threats.\nThe captors held the two aid workers for over 100 days, the longest-running kidnapping in Darfur since the 2003 start of the region's conflict. Until March, the longest an aid worker had been detained in Darfur was 24 hours.\nFollowing the issue of an arrest warrant in March by the International Criminal Court for Sudan's President Omar al-Bashir for masterminding war crimes, aid workers say hostility and threats have increased towards them, and that Sudan's relations with foreign relief organisations have declined dramatically.\nIn March and April two civil workers of \"M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res\" (Doctors Without Borders) and French aid agency \"Aide m\u00e9dicale internationale\" (International Medical Aid) were kidnapped then released after three and 26 days respectively. A different group still holds captive two employees of the region's joint United Nations\u2014African Union peacekeeping force. These are the only two workers left in captivity.\nNo amnesty.\nTo date, Sudanese authorities have not punished kidnappers; however al-Gilani announced yesterday that those responsible for the latest kidnapping must be brought to justice. In talking with AFP, he stated, \"[t]hey must be punished otherwise there will be no more order\". The government called the kidnappers \"bandits\" and state no amnesty will be granted for the release of aid workers."}
{"id": "141668", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141668", "title": "Insurgent attack in South Thailand injures 24", "text": "The city of Yala, Thailand was hit by a bomb attack this morning in a fresh food market wounding 24, including three soldiers. One injured soldier is said to be in a serious condition.\nThe bomb was hidden in a motorcycle and detonated via remote. The police believe the bomb contained between seven and ten kilograms of explosives. Two men were witnessed parking the bike; police had checked the vehicle without detecting the bomb. It is suspected the bomb may have been detonated using a mobile phone.\nThis particular area of the city has been a target of local insurgents in the past; four attacks have occurred nearby and the implementation of new security measures is under consideration. These may include a prohibition on parking vehicles in front of the market, and introduction of closed-circuit television in the area.\nThe explosion occurred around 7:30 am local time (00.30 UTC). A range of civilians were injured in addition to members of the military; the attack is being blamed on insurgent members of the Malay-Muslim majority in southern Thailand."}
{"id": "141670", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141670", "title": "Whitney Houston has 'wardrobe malfunction' during UK debut on TV show 'X Factor'", "text": "American singer Whitney Houston's debut performance in the United Kingdom didn't go exactly to plan on Sunday night, causing a bit of controversy.\nDuring her performance of her new single \"Million dollar Bill\" on the UK television show \"The X Factor\" Sunday evening, she experienced a 'wardrobe malfunction'. The strap on her back, holding her dress together, suddenly snapped off about midway through her performance. She also had a difficult time walking and dancing on the stage, as her dress appeared to be too long. Houston carried on and at no time stopped the performance.\n\"I sang right out of my dress,\" Houston said after her performance to the show's host Dermot O'Leary.\nX Factor fans began to complain on the show's website as a result of the interview with O'Leary. Some accused Houston of being on drugs, because of her shaky voice while being interviewed. Other fans called her performance \"a waste of talent\" and disappointing. However, other fans criticized those who made the comments telling them to \"put the past behind\" them. \nHouston has not responded to the accusations. It has been over a decade since Houston last performed in the UK."}
{"id": "141671", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141671", "title": "24 wounded by a blast in Thailand", "text": ""}
{"id": "141675", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141675", "title": "Two kidnapped aid workers in Darfur, Sudan released after more than 100 days", "text": ""}
{"id": "141677", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141677", "title": "Windows 7 gets 'early release' in China; software pirates beat Microsoft to the punch", "text": "In Shanghai, China, bootleg copies of Microsoft\u2019s Windows 7 operating system were displayed a week before the official date of sale. People in mainland China have been able to buy copies of the newest version of Microsoft\u2019s Windows franchise for 20 yuan ($2.93) each \u2014 less than one percent of list prices, which are $320.\nIn China, the world\u2019s second largest PC market, about 80 percent of software sold last year was pirated. The biggest issue is the price of software: Microsoft will sell its low-end version of Windows 7 for 15 times as much as is charged for pirated copies.\nIn a bid to tackle the problem, Microsoft began an unconventional campaign in China last year that caused a black screen to be displayed every hour for users of pirated versions of Windows XP (Windows Genuine Advantage was distributed through automatic updates). However, that caused thousands of irate users to migrate to free software from domestic companies such as Kingsoft.\nSome people have said that free web-based software, supported by advertising, may ultimately help to reduce piracy in China by letting third parties pay for development costs.\nAnother likely competitor of Windows 7 is Mac OS: its sales figures have consistently grown every time a new Windows operating system has launched over the last 10 years."}
{"id": "141684", "revid": "126901", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141684", "title": "New Gabonese president names new government", "text": "Gabon's new president Ali Ben Bongo has named his first government, after winning the country's recent presidential elections.\nBongo has kept interim Prime Minister Paul Mba, who has served in the post since July when his predecessor stepped down to run against Bongo.\nPaul Tongui remained the foreign minister. Jean Francois Ndoungou kept his job as interior minister. Angelique Ngoma was moved from her position as minister of families to the defense minister \u2014 the first time that a woman has held that post in Gabon.\nPresident Bongo was defense minister in the previous government of his father, Omar Bongo, who died in June after ruling for forty years.\nIn all, a dozen members of the new government are veterans of the previous administration. However, Bongo has trimmed its size. Including himself and the prime minister, there are just 30 members of the new government. The previous administration had 44. Prime Minister Mba said the move \"is aimed primarily at efficiency\".\nFrancois Engongah Owono is the secretary general of the presidency. Owono said that the new, smaller government will be more efficient and includes people determined to get everyone in Gabon working together for a better country.\nBongo was sworn in Saturday after a lengthy review of the August election that brought him to power. Opposition candidates filed suit to overturn the results, accusing electoral officials of vote fraud to benefit the ruling party. Gabon's constitutional court recounted returns from more than 2,800 polling stations and confirmed Bongo's win.\nMost election observers believe the vote was fair, despite irregularities that included security forces at polling stations, some ballot boxes not being properly sealed, and the absence of opposition representatives during some vote counting.\nBongo has promised to improve health, education, and housing in Gabon and more equitably distribute oil revenue. Under his father, Gabon became the world's sixth-largest oil exporter, but 70% of the population still live in poverty. "}
{"id": "141702", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141702", "title": "Iran uranium talks &quot;off to a good start&quot;", "text": "Talks between Iranian, Russian, French, and United States officials are \"off to a good start\" according to Mohamed ElBaradei, head of the United Nations' nuclear watchdog.\nThe four countries met at the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) today in , despite a statement on Iranian television shortly beforehand saying that the government would not deal directly with France, due to it previously failing to provide \"nuclear materials\".\nThe countries are working on a deal which would allow Iran to send enriched uranium to France and Russia and converted for use in a medical isotopes research reactor. This is the first time that a deal has been worked on regarding Iran's nuclear programme since the issue was brought up at a meeting in Geneva at the start of this month.\nOne concern is that Iran has not sent its atomic agency chief, an indication that a resolution of the matter may be be achieved; nevertheless ElBaradei remained positive. \"We had this afternoon quite a constructive meeting. We're off to a good start. Most of the technical issues have been discussed,\" he said following the meeting. The head of the Iranian delegation, Ali Asghar Soltanieh, agreed with with the comments, but declined to comment on Iranian media reports that the government is reluctant to send its nuclear fuel. Talks are due to resume tomorrow morning.\nDefiant stance.\nA senior Iranian official denied reports on state broadcaster \"Press TV\" that Iran only wanted to import higher-enriched uranium for its research reactor directly from France, Russia or the US, due to difficulties under current UN sanctions.\nIran's nuclear energy agency spokesman, Ali Shirzadian, said the deal would not end nuclear enrichment activities, as it was not \"economically feasible\" to purify further low enriched uranium itself to the 130-300kg yield required, adding this was an option if talks \"do not bring about Iran's desired result\".\nSanctions.\nIran escaped further UN sanctions after talks in Geneva earlier this month. It agreed to IAEA inspections of a hidden nuclear site, believed to be near the holy city of and to send nuclear material to Russia and France for processing, part of the deal being negotiated at the Vienna talks. According to Western officials, Iran already agreed tentatively in Geneva to major points, but this is denied by Iran.\nAccording to a Western diplomat, who wished to remain anonymous, the talks this week were supposed to seal the deal. \"But, since we have had no negotiations thus far with the Iranians, the next couple of days could reopen a lot of what we hoped was already agreed in principle,\" he added."}
{"id": "141709", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141709", "title": "Uranian talks &quot;off to a good start&quot;", "text": ""}
{"id": "141717", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141717", "title": "Uranium talks &quot;off to a good start&quot;", "text": ""}
{"id": "141722", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141722", "title": "US scientist from Maryland accused of spying for Israel", "text": "Stewart D. Nozette, 52, from Chevy Chase, Maryland in the United States, was arrested Monday on charges of espionage and is being held until a court hearing on Tuesday. He is accused of spying for Israel.\nNozette, who received a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, had several high profile jobs in the U.S. government and access to classified materials. He worked for the Energy Department's Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory from 1990 to 1999 and was the President of the Alliance for Competitive Technology, which was formed in 1990 by Nozette. Both of these organizations had contracts with the U.S. government, providing advanced technology. Nozette also worked for NASA and the Department of Defense. During the course of these jobs, authorities say Nozette had access to classified information. The last time he is alleged to have had regular access to any such information was as late as 2006.\nAccording to court notes made by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, an undercover agent pretending to be an Israeli intelligence officer contacted Nozette on September 3, 2009 and asked for information, and later that day Nozette confirmed his willingness to give the officer classified material in exchange for money and an Israeli passport. During another meeting with the officer, Nozette allegedly pointed out that he no longer had access to classified documents but might recall information from them.\nThe notes detail that Nozette received two envelopes after a month containing US$11,000 and lists of questions they wanted Nozette to answer. Nozette allegedly returned envelopes containing information labelled as \"top secret\" about U.S. military satellites, the nation's early warning systems against missile attacks, and the ability of the U.S. to withstand and defend itself from a large-scale attack.\nNozette faces a maximum sentence of life in prison. \"The conduct alleged in this complaint is serious and should serve as a warning to anyone who would consider compromising our nation's secrets for profit,\" said U.S. Assistant Attorney General David Kris. "}
{"id": "141724", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141724", "title": "EU to give 280 million euro in aid to dairy farmers", "text": "European Union (EU) Agriculture Commissioner Mariann Fischer Boel pledged million in aid to dairy farmers Monday, after weeks of protests. She said she would \"empty her pockets\", but that was as much as she could offer; \"I don't have a special account in Switzerland or anywhere else,\" she commented at an EU farm conference in Luxembourg where farmers were holding their third protest in as many weeks.\nA recent demonstration in Belgium saw farmers dump three million litres (660,000 gallons) of milk on fields \u2014 and requests from 21 EU member states for emergency aid. The funds will come out of the 2010 budget. This is in addition to the announcement in September that the EU would modify rules to allow temporary state aid payments; each farmer could receive a maximum of \u20ac15,000.\nLast November, EU agriculture ministers planned to abolish milk quotas completely by 2015. The quotas are aimed at supporting prices, as the demand for dairy products has plummeted throughout the economic crisis; in some cases, prices have halved since 2007.\nThese measures seek to alleviate temporary problems, but the commission still intends to end the quota system for milk, and reduce market intervention which helps support prices."}
{"id": "141727", "revid": "7186", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141727", "title": "Indonesian president sworn in for a second term", "text": "President has been sworn in for a second five-year term as president of Indonesia. During his election campaign he promised economic growth and political reform. Under his previous term he worked to remove corruption with the .\nDuring yesterday morning's ceremonial swearing-in at the national assembly in , broadcast throughout the country, he swore to uphold the constitution on the ; Indonesia is the largest country in the world, with 234 million people, of which around 85% are Muslim.\n\"The essence of our programme for the next five years is to improve welfare, strengthen democracy and the legal system,\" he said. \"In the middle of the economic crisis, Indonesia can still grow positively. But we cannot stay idle, as our tasks are far from over.\"\nThe president won just over 60% in July's elections, well ahead of main rival , former president and daughter of ex-president , who brought the archipelago to independence. Megawati and former vice-president challenged the results, claiming irregularities in votes, but in August the ruled that the claims were unfounded.\nMany challenges lie ahead for the president. He stated that his priority was economic growth of 4% in the face of the global financial recession. He has promised to create new jobs, reduce the number of people living under the poverty line and also encourage investment. His other tasks include handling recovery from the recent earthquakes, combating terrorism, instigating bureaucratic and labour law reforms, and improving infrastructure."}
{"id": "141735", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141735", "title": "BBC's Mock The Week 'breached guidelines' with Olympian humour, say corporation's Trust", "text": "Comments made about Olympics swimmer Rebecca Adlington on British television programme \"Mock the Week\" \"breached guidelines\", the BBC Trust has said. \nScottish comedian Frankie Boyle, at the time a panelist on the satirical gameshow, made the comments about the swimmer. The episode the comments featured on was originally broadcast in August 2008 on BBC Two. The episode caused a total of 75 complaints to be made to the BBC. The producer then apologised four months later, saying, \"[t]he ribbing may have gone a tad too far on this occasion.\"\nNow the BBC Trust has said that the comments \"breached guidelines\". They commented that the jokes \"risked offending the audience\" and were \"humiliating\". Speaking about the comments, BBC Trustee Richard Tait made a statement saying: \"For Mock the Week, the [Trust's Editorial Standards] committee felt that the comments about Rebecca were humiliating, and this was exacerbated by the fact that she had not sought celebrity status or courted media attention. There was no clear editorial purpose for the joke's inclusion.\"\nBoyle's specific comments were quoted in \"The Daily Telegraph\" and were as follows: \"The thing that nobody really said about Rebecca Adlington is that she looks pretty weird. She looks like someone who's looking at themselves in the back of a spoon...When she arrived back on the flight [from Beijing] she met her boyfriend. Did you see her boyfriend? He was really attractive. He was like a male model. So from that I have deduced that Rebecca Adlington is very dirty.\" \nThis information came through seventeen days after the BBC announced that Frankie Boyle would be leaving the panel of the show after being a regular panellist since the show started in June 2005 due to \"other television commitments\". The show had been running for seven series, and will continue to run for another two seasons, despite his absence. A spokesperson for Mock the Week had said that he had been \"a brilliant member of the team\" and that \"the door is always open for him to come back\"."}
{"id": "141740", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141740", "title": "Indian Human Resources minister to reform technology sector", "text": "Kapil Sibal, India's Minister of Human Resource Development (HRD) held a meeting Monday to present his reform plans for the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) sector by increasing the entrance percentage to 80% and above in the \"class XII\" (final year) board exams. A three-member committee was set up to review the proposal.\nSibal said, \"The present criteria is that students need to secure 60% in class XII for appearing in IIT-JEE. This is not acceptable\", pointing out that the current criteria where students getting more than 60% in the board exam of the twelfth class are eligible for IIT-JEE is not good enough and that it has to be raised to 80-85%.\nHe also stated that students undervalue final year board exams, preparing instead for the Indian Institute of Technology Joint Entrance Examination (IIT-JEE); they enrol in coaching institutes and concentrate on their study material in order to enter IIT. He wants to abolish these \"teaching shops.\"\nThe meeting decided that they would set up two committees, one headed by Anil Kakodkar, Atomic Energy Commission (Chairman) and other by T. Ramasamy, Department of Science and Technology (Secretary). The first committee is scheduled to decide final year board percentage and the second one is scheduled to set the curriculum.\nThe Kakodkar committee also plans to decide how to abolish coaching institutes and how to move IIT field forward with a greater emphasis on research. The committee is expected to submit its report in the next six months. The minister also clarified that some of these will be implemented from the 2010 academic year and some from 2011.\nThe meeting was also expected to reduce the fee for African and South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) countries as their fees are higher than those of Indians. The review committee says that people of other countries are tempted to study in India but they refrain due to high fees. The Ramasamy committee is expected to submit its report in the next three months.\nLastly, the meeting said that it will appoint board members and directors on the basis of nominations and independent rank and power to ensure IIT's activity."}
{"id": "141747", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141747", "title": "Windows 7 gets \u201cearly release\u201d in China; software pirates beat Microsoft to the punch", "text": ""}
{"id": "141748", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141748", "title": "UK TV show Mock The Week &quot;breached guidelines&quot; with Rebecca Adlington jokes, say BBC Trust", "text": ""}
{"id": "141754", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141754", "title": "Maryland scientist accused of spying for Israel", "text": ""}
{"id": "141758", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141758", "title": "ECOWAS suspends Niger in dispute over constitution", "text": "The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) has suspended Niger for refusing to postpone a legislative election. The regional alliance wanted Niger to delay the vote, which was held on Tuesday, to allow for political dialogue following a controversial referendum that has extended the president's time in office.\n\"ECOWAS will not recognize the outcome of today's elections in Niger,\" the alliance said in a statement.\nECOWAS followed through on its threat to suspend Niger after President went ahead with legislative vote. Tandja ignored last-minute appeals by ECOWAS leaders to delay the poll, saying that election preparations were too far advanced.\nThe regional alliance asked him to indefinitely suspend the election in favor of political dialogue to resolve a political crisis sparked by an August referendum that changed the constitution to extend the president's time in office.\n\"ECOWAS is already in touch with the African Union to put the Niger file also on the agenda of the African Union , which would also lead to the United Nations taking a similar decision,\" said Abdel Fatau Musah, the political director of the ECOWAS alliance. \"And we know that our partners, like the European Union, are also considering very severed measures against President Tandja and the authorities in Niger for blatantly casting aside their constitution, which actually forbids their president from going beyond two terms.\"\nOpposition parties have been boycotting this vote for 113 legislators to replace the parliament Tandja dismissed when it said his constitutional referendum was illegal. The president dismissed the country's constitutional court when it reached the same conclusion. \nAlat Mogaskiya, one of the founders of Niger's , said that Tandja had the legal authority to dismiss parliament, but ignored the constitutional mandate to have new elections to replace those lawmakers within 90 days. He claimed that the new Tandja government is illegal and illegitimate, because the referendum extending the president's term was unconstitutional.\nRuling party communications secretary Issoufou Tamboura said the opposition boycott will have no impact on the vote, just as its boycott of the referendum had no effect on changing the constitution. Tamboura said the boycott will not stop the new government from continuing its work and electing a new assembly. Parties are free to join or boycott the vote as they choose.\nHe added that the boycott will not affect the credibility of this vote, because the ruling party is the country's largest and it is taking part. Some other smaller parties are also participating. He said his party believes this election will be credible."}
{"id": "141767", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141767", "title": "Zimbabwe cabinet meets without MDC ministers after boycott", "text": "Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe led a cabinet meeting on Tuesday without the presence of unity partner Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai, who was out of the country on a regional tour to appeal for help with mediation. This comes after Tsvangirai and his Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party pulled out of the unity government several days ago, protesting what they called \"dishonest and unreliable\" behaviour by Mugabe.\nZimbabwe state media reported on Tuesday that President Mugabe will not recognise Tsvangirai's suspension of ties with the government until he is formally informed. The state-owned daily newspaper, The Herald, quoted Mugabe's spokesman, George Charamba, as saying Tsvangirai is still prime minister and is expected to attend cabinet meetings.\n\u201cGovernment is not run through media statements. In the same way that President Mugabe formally appointed him to the post of Prime Minister he must also communicate any decision to disengage or whatever it is they are calling it, in a formal manner,\" Charamba said.\n\"This can be done orally or in writing but in a formal manner. From that point of view nothing has happened. Until the communication is done formally the president has no reason or any grounds to think or know otherwise,\u201d he said.\nTsvangirai, who \"disengaged\" from the country's unity government last week, was accused by the newspaper of traveling without cabinet approval. The leader of the MDC party is on a ten-day trip of Southern African Development Community countries, who helped to negotiate the troubled power sharing agreement in Zimbabwe. Tsvangirai is not due to return to Zimbabwe until sometime next week.\nAccording to The Herald, government officials said that Tsvangirai had attempted to obtain cabinet authority for his trip while en route to the airport, but was told that it was too late to receive it.\nHowever, University of Zimbabwe political science professor John Makumbe said he believed Tsvangirai's partial withdrawal from the national unity government was long overdue and ZANU-PF's reaction is mere posturing. \"Morgan Tsvangirai has done the right thing, he must light fires and make ZANU-PF run around putting the fires out. What he has been doing to date is agreeing to be treated like a tea-boy, he has been told what to do and he has done it without asking questions,\" Makumbe said.\nHe said that Mugabe's ZANU-PF party couldn't risk going it alone, as Tsvangirai has a stronger claim to legitimacy as his party won the elections in March 2008.\nMinisters from a splinter faction of the MDC led by Arthur Mutambara attended the cabinet meeting. Mutambara, who is one of two deputy prime ministers, said at a news conference on Monday that he was talking to both Mugabe and Tsvangirai. He said the national unity government is Zimbabwe's only hope of moving forward. \"We are determined to give this government a fighting chance because in our mind there is no plan B,\" Mutambara said.\nTsvangirai announced last week that his party would not withdraw from the unity government altogether, but would boycott the executive branch whose ministries it shares with the ZANU-PF party. He cited the reluctance of Mugabe to implement matters that had been agreed to in the so-called Global Political Agreement, which brought the national unity government to power.\nAmong the outstanding issues is the appointment of governors and the alleged harassment of his party members and Members of Parliament. His announcement came two days after agriculture deputy minister designate Roy Bennett was arrested and re-detained on charges of insurgency and terror. Bennett has since been released on bail, but Tsvangirai has said his party will not participate in government until all the issues he raised have been resolved."}
{"id": "141769", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141769", "title": "Zimbabwe Cabinet Meets Without MDC Ministers", "text": ""}
{"id": "141776", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141776", "title": "Ousted Honduran president Zelaya says coup talks suspended", "text": "Deposed Honduran President Manuel Zelaya has said that talks on ending the stand-off stemming from his ouster have broken down.\nSpeaking from the Brazilian Embassy in the capital, Tegucigalpa, where he has taken refuge, Zelaya told reporters the talks are suspended until the other side presents what he called a \"reasonable\" stance. A member of Zelaya's negotiating team, Victor Meza, said the proposal offered by interim President Roberto Micheletti is \"completely unacceptable.\"\nThat proposal calls for the Honduran Supreme Court to decide whether Zelaya should be allowed to return to power. \nDespite Zelaya's statements, however, envoys from the two sides have said that negotiations will continue.\nMicheletti has recently come under international pressure to restore Zelaya to his post. Zelaya was ousted late in June of this year, after he refused to comply with orders by the country's Supreme Court to cancel a referendum regarding a constitutional rewrite that had been deemed illegal."}
{"id": "141783", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141783", "title": "ECOWAS Suspends Niger in Dispute Over Constitution", "text": ""}
{"id": "141800", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141800", "title": "US Supreme court to hear Guantanamo Bay cases", "text": "The United States Supreme Court accepted a request yesterday to hear a case from 13 ethnic Uighur (Chinese Muslim) inmates. Currently held at the US military base in Guantanamo Bay, they are requesting release to the United States, contrary to a measure voted last week by the House of Representatives permitting the transfer of prisoners to the US for trial, but explicitly forbidding their release to the US. Congress passed the legislation yesterday.\nThe legislation requires an assessment of potential security risks, including what dangers are involved, how the threat can be diminished, legal arguments and assurances about the detainee's level of risk to the relevant state governor, to be provided 45 days prior to prosecution in the US. Under these measures, the President must provide Congress with the detainee's name, destination, a risk assessment, and transfer terms in order to release them to another country.\nThe Uighurs are still being detained, despite the Pentagon clearing them of all charges in 2004. A federal judge ruled in February that they be released to the US. However an appeals court overturned the decision in February saying that only the executive branch, not federal judges, had jurisdiction on immigration matters.\nThe Supreme Court will hear the case in early 2010 and will have to decide whether or not federal judges may order their release to US soil. However, President Barack Obama promised to close the detention centre by January 22, and the implications for cases pending review are unclear. Of the 220 remaining detainees, 80 are awaiting release and 60 prosecution.\nThe Uighurs have been detained at Guantanamo for over seven years. They are part of a group of 22 suspected terrorists who were captured in Afghanistan and Pakistan after the invasion in October 2001 to remove the ruling Taliban; after being held on charges of training in Al-Qaeda camps they were moved to the detention centre in Cuba.\nThe US government has made efforts to relocate the prisoners. Five went to Albania in 2006 and another four went to Bermuda in June. The island of Palau has said it will take twelve, leaving just one. However, some of the Uighurs are worried that Palau is too close to China, where the ethnic group suffers from religious and political discrimination and are treated as separatists in the Xinjiang region."}
{"id": "141803", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141803", "title": "Suicide bombers close Pakistani schools", "text": "Schools and universities throughout Pakistan have been closed a day after suicide attacks at the in Islamabad. The two bombings by suspected militants killed eight people and injured at last eighteen, creating fear amidst a major offensive against the . All but one of the deceased were students.\nThe Taliban have claimed responsibility for the bombings \u2014 the first since the current assault in \u2014 and said that the violence would continue until the army ends its operations in the region. Interior Minister called the nation to unify when the country was in a state of war.\nA spokesman for the Interior Ministry, Rashid Mazari, said that all schools, colleges and universities would remain closed until the end of the week to prevent further suicide bombings and improve security measures; they may reopen next week provided the risk to security reduces. This follows the week-long closure of army and government-run schools, as well as some public schools, due to the current offensive in South Waziristan.\n18,000 attend the International Islamic University, with almost 2,000 international students, many of which are from China. Whilst it is a major centre for , most choose subjects such as computing or management.\nNot all accept that the Taliban were responsible for the bombings, suggesting instead anti-Islamic groups. \"It shows clearly that anti-Islamic elements are involved in these attacks,\" said Abul Hassan, a student in economics."}
{"id": "141817", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141817", "title": "Five cholera deaths recorded in Zimbabwe amid fears of new epidemic", "text": "Five deaths from cholera have been reported in the past week in the Zimbabwean provinces of Mashonaland West and Midlands, raising fears that the onset of the rains could lead to a repeat of the cholera epidemic that claimed thousands of lives in the past year.\nThe five deaths resulted from 117 cases reported in the Mashonaland West, Manicaland and Midlands provinces since last month. The provinces of Masvingo province has also reported cases. \nThe Zimbabwean Health and Child Welfare Secretary, Gerald Gwinji, said on Tuesday that most of the deaths and cases occurred among religious sects that do not accept medical treatment. \"Most of the cases were recorded [...] among religious objectors, who for a long time have been reluctant to seek medical attention,\" he said. Health experts have warned that with the rainy season just beginning around the country, cholera could get out of hand if safe water is not made widely available.\nAid agencies have been warning that another outbreak of the disease was very likely, as the heavy summer rains cause cholera, which is water-borne, to be transmitted more easily. \u201cThe fundamentals of the last epidemic are still there. Water is only sporadically available, and sewerage reticulation and refuse collection are only partially working,\u201d a spokeswoman for the UNICEF said.\nOfficials from aid agencies predicted that the number of current cholera infections in Zimbabwe will decline to around 60,000. \u201cIt\u2019s not the catastrophe that it was last year but it\u2019s still a big epidemic of an easily preventable disease that should never have been allowed to happen,\u201d an unnamed agency doctor said. The decrease has been anticipated after large amounts of water purification tablets, communal water tanks, and boreholes were installed in water systems as part of an operation to make water safer to drink.\nSpokeswoman Tsitsi Singizi of the United Nations Children's Fund told the Voice of America news agency that the government and international or non-governmental aid agencies have been doing all they can to prevent a repeat of last year's deadly epidemic.\nA recent cholera epidemic in Zimbabwe claimed 4,288 lives from late 2008 to mid-2009, the worst outbreak seen on the African continent for fifteen years after the collapse of sanitation and water systems throughout the country."}
{"id": "141820", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141820", "title": "With arrival of rainy season, perennial scramble in Zimbabwe for seed, fertilizer", "text": "As Zimbabwe's rainy season approaches, farmers in the Wedza district, Mashonaland East province, are worried that again this year they won't be able to locate or afford the seed, fertilizer, and other inputs needed to get a maize crop in the ground.\nAiming to relieve such shortages of inputs, Christian Care is among the non-governmental organizations working with the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and the European Union to implement an agricultural inputs support scheme. \nChristian Care said it is now providing farmers in the Midlands with fertilizer and seeds. \nExperts said most farmers are struggling to obtain inputs because the government has cut back on programs to finance planting, instead urging farmers to borrow from banks. But banks insist on land as collateral, though all farmland has been nationalized. \nEven farmers resettled under land reform since 2000 have only so-called offer letters granting them working rights, but banks will accept neither these nor livestock as collateral. \nChristian Care Director Forbes Matonga reported that his is one of seven organizations reaching out to small farmers under the FAO program. \nAs the rainy season begins, cholera is also now a growing concern. Residents of Zimbabwe, fearing a repeat of the 2008 epidemic that killed thousands, are struggling to complete precautionary measures. "}
{"id": "141821", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141821", "title": "UN says more investment in agriculture needed to tackle world hunger", "text": "The director general of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization is calling for more investment in agriculture in the developing world to tackle the problem of food insecurity. Jacques Diouf told Parliamentarians attending the 121st Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union that more than one billion people are going hungry because of under-investment in agriculture during the past two decades. \nA recent study by the Food and Agriculture Organization and World Food Program finds most of the more than one billion hungry people in the world live in developing countries. It says no region is immune and hunger is expected to increase everywhere, even in the developed world. \nJacques Diouf, Director General of the Food and Agriculture Organization, says 30 countries were in a situation of grave food crisis, requiring emergency assistance. He says 20 of them are in Africa and 10 in Asia and the Near East. \"The events of the last three years, triggered by soaring food prices and followed by the financial and economic turmoil, have demonstrated how fragile our global food system is. This year's increase in hunger is not the result of poor harvests or a shortfall in supplies, but rather is caused by the economic crisis which has reduced the incomes and job opportunities for the poor,\" he said. \nDiouf says under-investment in agriculture and rural development is one of the root causes of the recent global food crisis and the difficulties encountered by the majority of developing countries in dealing with it effectively. \n\"If people go hungry today it is not because the world is not producing enough food but because it is not produced in the countries where 70 percent of the world's poor live and whose livelihoods depend on farming activities. The challenge is not only to ensure food security for the one billion hungry people today, which is certainly an enormous task, but also to be able to feed a world population that is expected to reach 9.1 billion in 2050,\" he said. He has urged nations to increase food production by 70 percent by 2050, and remarked that \"Where there's a will, there's a way.\"\nThe FAO chief says studies show GDP growth originating in agriculture is at least twice as effective in reducing poverty as GDP growth originating in other sectors of the economy. He says the solution to food insecurity lies in boosting agricultural production and productivity in poor countries where food shortages are chronic. \nDiouf says production has to be increased in the most needy areas, by the most needy people. These are smallholder farmers in rural households. \nHe says investment in agriculture in developing countries would amount to $44 billion in official development assistance a year. He says the returns from that investment in tackling world hunger would be enormous."}
{"id": "141824", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141824", "title": "SADC calls for transparent Mozambique elections", "text": "The Southern African Development Community (SADC) has said it is calling for a transparent vote in Mozambique's scheduled October 28 general elections. The SADC made the call shortly after dispatching the first group of electoral observers all across Mozambique's provinces.\nThe observer mission is expected to issue its preliminary report three to five days after the electoral commission releases results. The SADC is expected to send about 120 observers to monitor the election, but so far only 38 are currently working in Mozambique.\n\"We hope that a legitimate winner emerges from the elections, who has a mandate to govern. We appeal to all Mozambicans to respect the law, and to Mozambique, as a member of SADC, to obey the SADC governance principles,\" Joao Caholo, the SADC deputy executive secretary, said.\nHe also announced that the SADC is planning to dispatch teams to the provinces to observe the election in its final stages, all the way up to the day the polls will be held. Caholo stressed that \"only the facts verified on the ground, and not just what is said to us, will determine the opinion of the observers.\"\nFelizeberto Nice, director general of the technical secretariat of Mozambique's National Electoral Commission, said that the electoral body is working closely with the SADC observer mission to ensure a peaceful election. \"Right now we are just finalizing the last step of our preparation regarding the election [on the] 28th of October. So what we can say is that we have managed to allocate all the voter materials to the capital of the province,\" Nice said. \nHe said the electoral body is determined to ensure a credible election. \"Right now we are just doing everything according to the law in order to have a kind of [good election],\" he said. Nice added electoral officials have been fully trained ahead of the vote, saying that \"we have trained very well our staff, including the code of conduct, including all the procedures that they have to do during the election.\"\nNice expressed confidence the election would be credible. \"We think that we are prepared to run this election,\" he said, denying opposing accusations that previous elections were skewed in favor of the ruling party. What the electoral commission always [does] is that it works according to all procedures, and working with all political parties, and after all the electoral process, we manage to get everything in terms of suggestions, in terms of recommendations, even coming from political parties (and) electoral observers.\"\nAccording to Nice, electoral body has had success coordinating with local and international observers ahead of the vote. \"The electoral commission [...] now is busy working with the different observer missions, Mozambique's election is on October 28 including SADC. And we are working closely with SADC, with the European Union, and I think there is a good relation between the electoral commission and the mission observers.\"\nThe SADC is to have 120 observers by the time the elections are held. 38 observers had arrived from Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Swaziland, Tanzania and Zambia, with others from South Africa and Zimbabwe also anticipated to attend. The only country within the SADC that is barred from having observers in the polls is Madagascar, which was placed under SADC sanctions after the regional body condemned President Andry Rajoelina's ascension to power, which it claimed was a coup d'\u00e9tat. "}
{"id": "141841", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141841", "title": "The HRD minister of India plans to reform the IIT sector", "text": ""}
{"id": "141845", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141845", "title": "At least 21 dead after train accident in India", "text": "Two passenger trains collided in India early on Wednesday, killing at least 21 people and injuring more than twenty others, reports have said. The accident occurred at around 05.30 local time (00.00 UTC), when a passenger train collided with another train which was waiting at a red signal near the northern city of Agra.\nBoth the trains were in the final leg of their journey at the time of the collision. They were heading to the capital, New Delhi, which is about 200 kilometers north of the accident site. \nPassengers said that they were sleeping when they felt a heavy jolt. One eyewitness told television crews that people on the upper berths of the train came tumbling down due to the impact: \"We felt a massive jolt. People sleeping on upper berths fell to the floor.\"\n\"There was a loud bang and we were suddenly thrown out of our seats. There was panic everywhere,\" another passenger recounted.\nA northern railway spokesman, R. D. Vajpayee, told the Voice of America news agency that the rear coach of the stationary train bore the brunt of the collision's impact. \"We had to rescue, take out the passengers which were trapped in the last coach. And, gas cutters were used, and we had called the army also. They had assisted us and, within a few hours, we had completed with rescue operations.\"\nAn unnamed eyewitness told the CNN-IBN news agency that \"there are many people who are injured and many people who are dead. A lot of people fell onto the tracks because of the impact of the collision.\"\nRailway officials said they are not certain what caused the accident, but one of the trains may have overlooked a signal to stop. An inquiry into the incident has been ordered.\nTrains are the most popular mode of long-distance travel in India. India operates one of the most extensive and busiest rail networks in the world; 9,000 passenger trains run every day, carrying more than eighty million people daily across the country. There are about 300 rail accidents in the country every year, prompting calls for improving safety standards on the rail network. Earlier this month, one person was killed when a train derailed. In February, another train accident in eastern India claimed sixteen lives."}
{"id": "141851", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141851", "title": "Afghan president accepts runoff vote; UN seeks to fire 200 officials", "text": "Afghan President Hamid Karzai agreed yesterday to a runoff vote with former Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah on November 7, after much international pressure, following . Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has said that the United Nations has requested that the Independent Election Commission (IEC) replace 200 of its officials in order to avoid a repeat incident. President Karzai said it was \"time to move forward to stability and national unity\".\nInternational reaction and involvement.\nWestern leaders commended President Karzai for agreeing to the runoff. \"While this election could have remained unresolved, to the detriment of the country, President Karzai's constructive actions established an important precedent for Afghanistan's new democracy,' said United States President Barack Obama. \"The Afghan Constitution and laws are strengthened by his decision, which is in the best interests of the Afghan people.\"\nUnited Kingdom Prime Minister Gordon Brown also commended Mr Karzai's \"statesmanlike behaviour\", whilst the European Union Special Representative Ettore Sequi reserved his congratulations for the Afghan people.\nUS Senator John Kerry is reported to have played a key role. In an interview with The New York Times, he said he told the Afghan leader about his experiences during his 2004 presidential election loss to former US President George W. Bush, when there were questions about some ballots that helped decide the outcome.\nHigh levels of fraud.\nUN officials say investigators found that 200 of the 380 district election chiefs in August's presidential vote were linked to polling irregularities or fraud. European Union observers believe that up to one in four of the votes were in doubt, and officials from the UN-backed Electoral Complaints Commission (ECC) discounted ballots from 210 polling stations.\nReadiness for runoff vote.\nThe UN mission in Kabul says that the removal and replacement of the officials had already started before yesterday's announcement of the runoff vote. Secretary General Ban said the UN had learned \"quite a painful lesson\" from the fraud. \"We realised that it was quite difficult for a young democracy to stand on its own, even with strong international assistance, particularly by the UN,\" he said. \"We will also try to visit all the polling stations to make sure that no such fraud can happen,\" he added.\nGrant Kippen, head of the ECC, said he believed the IEC is ready. \"They've been planning for this for a number of months now,\" he said. \"My understanding is that they're prepared. They have ballots printed, they have them here in Kabul along with the indelible ink and the polling station kits. So now the effort begins to get those materials distributed to the provinces and ready for the November 7 vote.\"\nThere are nevertheless difficulties ahead in implementing the runoff vote. Afghanistan has many large, mountainous regions, and some areas will become inaccessible due to snowfall. There are also security risks where militant factions still operate.\nWidespread problem.\nUS Defense Secretary Robert Gates welcomed the announcement of the runoff vote, but said Afghanistan's struggles with corruption are larger than one election. During a visit to Japan, he said that there is a \"need to be realistic\" that tackling issues of corruption and governance in Afghanistan are an ongoing \"evolutionary process.\"\n\"Clearly, having the run-off, getting it behind us and then moving forward is very important,\" he said. \"But I think we need to be realistic that the issues of corruption and governance that we are trying to work with the Afghan government on are not going to be solved simply by the outcome of the presidential election. This is going to be a work in progress, an evolutionary process, and we need to be realistic on that.\""}
{"id": "141853", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141853", "title": "Iran nuclear talks enter third day", "text": "Talks between Iran and three other countries continued on Wednesday in , Austria, as they try to work out a deal that will ease tensions over Iran's controversial nuclear program. Diplomats from Iran, Russia, France, and the United States began the third day of talks at the headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).\nTalks stalled on Tuesday, after Iran expressed resistance to aspects of the proposal, in which it would send most of its low-enriched \u2014 or below weapons- grade \u2014 uranium to Russia and France for further refinement, to be later used as reactor fuel.\nThe IAEA's ambassador to Iran, Ali Asghar Soltanieh, described the ongoing consultations as being \"constructive\".\nIranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said that Iran is opposed to France's involvement, accusing the country of failing to deliver nuclear supplies in the past. \"There is Russia, America [...] I believe these countries are enough,\" Mottaki said. \"France, based on its shortcomings to fulfil its obligations in the past, is not a trustworthy party to provide fuel for Iran.\"\nMottaki also added that an agreement would not mean that Iran would suspend its enrichment activity. \"Iran will continue its uranium enrichment. It is not linked to buying fuel from abroad. The meetings with world powers, and their behaviour, shows that Iran's right to have peaceful nuclear technology has been accepted by them,\" he said.\nIAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei said on Tuesday that progress was being made and that technical issues still needed to be analysed. He said an agreement was still within reach. \"I believe we are making progress. It is maybe slower than I expected. But we are moving forward,\" he said.\nElBaradei added that while \"many technical issues\" had to be considered, talks were still \"moving forward\". \nUS National Security Council spokesman Mike Hammer said that US and Iranian delegations held separate discussions on the proposed uranium enrichment deal, under the auspices of the IAEA.\nA diplomat familiar with the Vienna talks said the parties now are considering a compromise deal that would allow Russia to sub-contract enrichment work to France, thereby meeting Iran's request to avoid direct dealings with the country. The enrichment deal would be intended to ease concerns that Iranian uranium enrichment activities are aimed at developing nuclear weapons.\nMeanwhile, the United Nations Security Council recently imposed three sets of sanctions on Iran for its refusal to halt its enrichment activities."}
{"id": "141856", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141856", "title": "UK TV show Mock The Week 'breached guidelines' with Rebecca Adlington jokes, say BBC Trust", "text": ""}
{"id": "141871", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141871", "title": "Five Cholera Deaths Recorded In Zimbabwe Amid Fears of New Epidemic", "text": ""}
{"id": "141878", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141878", "title": "Indian Human Resources minister to reform the technology sector", "text": ""}
{"id": "141882", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141882", "title": "With Arrival of Rainy Season, Perennial Scramble in Zimbabwe for Seed, Fertilizer", "text": ""}
{"id": "141883", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141883", "title": "SADC Calls for Transparent Mozambique Election", "text": ""}
{"id": "141897", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141897", "title": "France confirms deportation of illegal Afghan immigrants", "text": "The French government confirmed on Wednesday that it has expelled illegal Afghan immigrants in its first joint deportation flight with the UK, in a move criticised by the opposition and human rights groups.\nThe deportation was widely anticipated, but the French government had refused to confirm that it would be expelling Afghan illegal immigrants until Wednesday. Immigration Minister Eric Besson told Europe One radio that three Afghan men had been put on a plane that had been chartered by the British government. The plane was also carrying illegal Afghan immigrants living in Britain. \nBesson said a fourth Afghan had been slated to be expelled as well, but was held back at the last minute. He said those expelled had lost their appeals against deportation, including one before the European Court of Human Rights. He said that he will not rule out future deportation flights with Britain.\nThe expulsions have sparked widespread outcry on the part of human rights groups and opposition politicians, including Paris Mayor Bertrand Delanoe. The French rights group France Terre d'Asile has gathered thousands of signatures in a petition against deportation.\nMarie-Helene Senay, communications director for France Terre d'Asile, said she opposed the deporting of Afghans back to their country, which has been torn by conflict, even if they do not meet asylum requirements in France.\n\"We think the situation in Afghanistan does not [warrant] the return of Afghan people in good security. We know the situation over there is the worst we have ever known since 2001,\" she said. \"We know there is still war everywhere, that the police and the security forces cannot maintain the country in a stable position. So we really wonder what kind of security we can [have] for the people we send back there.\"\nThe French government, however, has argued that it is only trying to crack down on human smuggling rings and that illegal immigrants are given every legal recourse to remain in France. Immigration Minister Besson defended the decision, saying that \"if France never sends people back, it becomes the target for people traffickers.\" He added that the three men put on the flight were from the Afghan capital of Kabul, \"where there is no risk for them\", and would be given monetary assistance to help them settle back into Afghanistan."}
{"id": "141903", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141903", "title": "Iran Nuclear Talks Enter Third Day", "text": ""}
{"id": "141907", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141907", "title": "Massachusetts man charged with conspiring to attack US mall, kill Iraq troops", "text": "United States officials have said that a 27-year-old man in the northeastern state of Massachusetts has been arrested and charged with plotting acts of terrorism, including plans to kill people at a shopping mall and to kill US government employees. \nActing US Attorney Michael Loucks said on Wednesday that Tarek Mehanna has been charged with conspiracy to provide material support to terrorists. According to Loucks, Mehanna and his co-conspirators had multiple discussions about obtaining automatic weapons for the mall attack, but that the plan was abandoned because they could not obtain anything more than handguns.\nHe added that Mehanna discussed other plots, including wanting to kill two members of the Executive Branch of the US government. \nProsecutors have alleged that Mehanna and his conspirators discussed their desire for a \"violent jihad against American interests,\" including US and allied forces in Iraq, and that they talked about their desire to \"die on the battlefield.\" If convicted, Mehanna faces up to fifteen years in prison on the charge of material support of terrorism.\nA statement by the Justice Department read that \"Mehanna and the co-conspirators had multiple conversations about obtaining automatic weapons and randomly shooting people in a shopping mall, and that the conversations went so far as to discuss the logistics of a mall attack, including coordination, weapons needed and the possibility of attacking emergency responders.\"\nLoucks did not name the two people targeted in the alleged plot against government officials, but said they are no longer members of the Executive Branch and were never in any danger.\nThe acting attorney said Mehanna began conspiring around 2001 with a man named Ahmad Abousamra and others to provide material support and resources for use in a conspiracy to kill, kidnap, maim or injure persons or damage property in a foreign country. He said Abousamra is now in Syria.\nA preliminary trial hearing for his case was held on Wednesday, in which Mehanna did not enter a plea. Mehanna's lawyer, J. W. Carney, who spoke to reporters after the plea was held, didn't say which way Mehanna would plead.\nMehanna had been arrested earlier, in November 2008, accused of lying to investigators regarding one of his contacts, who was suspected to have been in training with al-Qaeda. He was later given bail."}
{"id": "141909", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141909", "title": "France Confirms Deportation of Illegal Afghan Immigrants", "text": ""}
{"id": "141921", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141921", "title": "Scottish lawyer denies death of Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset Ali al-Megrahi", "text": "A Scottish lawyer today denied reports that Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi had died, after it was reported on Sky News earlier today that \"unidentified sources\" had said that he was dead.\nThe reports came onto Sky News at around 16.00 BST today. The information could not be confirmed, and it was not immediately clear where Sky News had obtained their information. Megrahi is suffering from terminal prostate cancer. Scottish Cabinet Secretary for Justice Kenny MacAskill MSP decided on 20 August 2009 to grant Megrahi compassionate release from Greenock Prison in Glasgow, Scotland and to allow him to return to Libya, after medical advisers reported that he was likely to die in just three months.\nOn Wednesday, Megrahi's lawyer, Tony Kelly, responded to the claims made, saying that \"it's absolutely untrue. He's definitely not dead. I'm not saying anything about his health condition other than the fact he is alive and breathing.\" He declined to release any information about Abdelbaset's current health condition. Following these comments, Sky News removed the information from their website."}
{"id": "141925", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141925", "title": "Train Accident in India Kills at Least 21 People", "text": ""}
{"id": "141931", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141931", "title": "Demonstrators clash with police in Algeria after slum protest", "text": "Demonstrators and police clashed on Wednesday in , Algeria, after the residents of a slum district in the city took to the streets to demonstrate against housing and job shortages.\nThe protest, led by residents of the Diar Echams area of the Algerian capital, conflicted with security forces after starting a protest late on Wednesday. Police officials said at least eleven officers were injured in the violence, but they have not released a civilian casualty figure.\n400 or so policemen, equipped with riot gear and an armoured vehicle, tried to break up the protests. Demonstrators hurled petrol bombs, stones, and other heavy objects at police."}
{"id": "141940", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141940", "title": "Massachusetts Man Allegedly Conspired to Attack US Mall, Kill Troops in Iraq", "text": ""}
{"id": "141941", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141941", "title": "Hopes for treaty on climate begin to wither", "text": "International climate negotiations for a global climate treaty are not producing the required results in the given amount of time left before the Copenhagen conference in December, diminishing the hopes for a resolution at this conference.\nMajor polluters have already decided that the only way for a plan of this scale to take effect is to have steps towards the reduction of greenhouse gases instead of creating a plan which takes immediate effect and shuts down production facilities. Countries are likely to propose steps at the Copenhagen Meeting.\nYvo De Boer, a Dutch Diplomat, has been overseeing the proceedings so far. \"There isn't sufficient time to get the whole thing done. But I hope it will go well beyond simply a declaration of principles. The form I would like it to take is the groundwork for a ratifiable agreement next year,\" commented Boer.\nThe 192 countries which make up the United Nations show the gaps in-between their ideas. Wealthier nations are planning to help poorer countries with enforcing climate laws and investing in newer technology. 16 of the largest polluters have already begun planning on aiding poorer countries.\nOfficials are attempting to narrow down issues which countries agree on, such as certain steps and the common goal to limit emissions. Negotiators plan to discuss how the treaty will be upheld at Copenhagen. Diplomats have raised the question of reliability, since most of the supporting countries have not enforced any binding climate legislation within their own countries. Until it is shown that all countries participating will uphold the treaty, nations are unwilling to enforce a treaty within their own country.\nAlthough there are hopes of progress in Copenhagen, observes note that radical change is unlikely. \"The most likely form any agreement will take will be a political declaration,\" said Nigel Purvis, State Department climate negotiator during the Clinton Administration and Bush administration."}
{"id": "141943", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141943", "title": "Mauritius", "text": ""}
{"id": "141951", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141951", "title": "Glenn Beck", "text": ""}
{"id": "141952", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141952", "title": "Marc Randazza", "text": ""}
{"id": "141953", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141953", "title": "Satirical website criticizes Glenn Beck for 'hypocritical' attempts to silence free speech", "text": "In a court filing Tuesday in the ongoing case before the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva, Switzerland, a satirical website which parodies American political commentator Glenn Beck argues Beck is attempting to silence free speech.\nFlorida resident Isaac Eiland-Hall created the website in September, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics \"to spread lies and misinformation\". The website is being represented in the case \"Beck v. Eiland-Hall\" by free speech lawyer Marc Randazza. \"Wikinews\" interviewed Randazza for the article \"US free speech lawyer Marc Randazza discusses Glenn Beck parody\", and previously reported on the case in an article earlier this month, \"US free speech lawyer defends satire of Glenn Beck\".\nEiland-Hall's website is located at the domain \"www.GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlIn1990.com\". Its premise is derived from a joke statement made by Gilbert Gottfried about fellow comedian Bob Saget. Users of the Internet discussion community Fark first applied the joke to Beck, and it then became popular on several social media sites. Eiland-Hall saw the discussion on Fark, and created a website about it. The website asserts it does not believe the rumors to be true, commenting, \"[b]ut we think Glenn Beck definitely uses tactics like this to spread lies and misinformation.\" The website was created on September 1, and just two days later attorneys for Beck's company Mercury Radio Arts took action. Beck's lawyers sent letters to the domain name registrar where they referred to the domain name itself as \"defamatory\", but failed to get the site removed.\nBeck filed a formal complaint with the Switzerland-based agency of the United Nations, WIPO, who operate under regulations laid out by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. Beck asserts the website's usage is libelous, bad faith, and could befuddle potential consumers. Beck's complaint was filed under the process called the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy. This policy allows trademark owners to begin an administrative action by complaining that a certain domain registration is in \"bad faith\". Beck argues the site should be shut down because it is an infringement upon his trademark in his own name, \"Glenn Beck\".\nEiland-Hall retained Randazza as his attorney after receiving threatening letters from legal representatives of Beck. On September 28, Randazza filed a response brief to WIPO, contending the site is \"protected political speech\", due to it's \"satirical political humor\". Randazza stated, \"[e]ven an imbecile would look at this Web site and know that it\u2019s a parody.\" Randazza's brief comments on Beck's style of reporting, and highlight a controversial statement made by him when interviewing a Muslim US Congressman. Beck said to Representative Keith Ellison, \"I like Muslims, I've been to mosques. ... And I have to tell you, I have been nervous about this interview because what I feel like saying is, sir, prove to me that you are not working with our enemies.\" According to the Citizen Media Law Project, the website's joke premise takes advantage of \"a perceived similarity between Beck's rhetorical style and the Gottfried routine\".\nRandazza argues in the response filed on behalf of Eiland-Hall that Beck is using the process of the WIPO court to infringe the free speech rights of his client; \"Beck is attempting to use this transnational body to circumvent and subvert the Respondent's [web site owner] constitutional rights [to freedom of speech],\" he wrote. Randazza cites the U.S. Supreme Court case, \"Hustler Magazine v. Falwell\", in arguing that Beck's attorneys advised him against filing legal action in a U.S. court because the website would likely be seen as a form of parody and due to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, such legal action would not be successful.\nOn September 29, Randazza sent a request to Beck's representatives, asking that their client agree to stipulate to the United States Constitution, and especially to the First Amendment, during the case before the WIPO. In the request, Randazza quotes a statement from Beck himself about the usage of international law by United States citizens, Beck said, \"[o]nce we sign our rights over to international law, the Constitution is officially dead.\" In an interview with \"Wikinews\" on Monday, Randazza stated that Beck had not replied to his request to stipulate to the U.S. Constitution and the First Amendment in the WIPO case.\nOn Tuesday, Randazza filed a surreply \u2013 a response document to an October 13 supplementary filing made by Beck in the case. Attorneys for Beck asserted in the supplementary filing that the joke made by the website is difficult to comprehend, and therefore the domain name is confusing. In Beck's supplementary filing, his lawyers argued, \"While there is absolutely nothing humorous or amusing about the statement made by Respondent in his domain name that 'Glenn Beck Raped and Murdered a Young Girl in 1990,' the average Internet user finding the domain name GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlin1990.com (\"Disputed Domain Name\") in a search would have no reason not to believe that they will be directed to a website providing factual information (as opposed to protected criticism or similar protected speech) about Mr. Beck.\" \nRandazza's surreply asserts, \"An average Internet user might not 'get the joke'. In fact, the average Internet user does not understand any internet memes. That's the fun of a meme - it is an esoteric inside joke that will leave most people scratching their heads.\"\nIn Randazza's conclusion to the Eiland-Hall surreply, he called Beck \"the butt\" of a joke he apparently does not understand. Randazza wrote that Beck \"should be deeply ashamed\" for devaluing the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution:\n\"Glenn Beck is the butt of a viral joke. He may not get the joke, but this does not make the joke likely to confuse or subject the domain name to transfer under the UDRP. Glenn Beck\u2019s failure to understand these basic principles of law does not make the joke any less humorous, and does not make him any less of the butt. The First Amendment protects Respondent\u2019s right to make Glenn Beck the butt, and his hypocritical attempts to squelch legitimate free speech criticism do nothing to portray himself in a more flattering light. Because his arguments do not satisfy Section 4(a) of the Policy, his request should be denied. Because he has attempted to silence a critic by circumventing (and thereby devaluing) the First Amendment -- which he publicly (and in this proceeding) claims to love -- he should be deeply ashamed.\"\nCommentators likened the legal conflict between Beck and the site to the Streisand effect, a phenomenon where an individual's attempt to censor material on the Internet in turn proves to make the material itself more public. "}
{"id": "141963", "revid": "2327", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141963", "title": "BBC's Mock The Week 'breached guidelines' with olympian humour, say corporation's Trust", "text": ""}
{"id": "141966", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141966", "title": "Colombian drug lord receives 45-year jail sentence in US", "text": "A US federal judge in Miami, Florida handed down a 45-year jail sentence to Diego Montoya, aged 48, two months after he pleaded guilty to murder, drug trafficking and racketeering charges. At the proceedings, Montoya apologised for his past actions, saying he hoped his sentence would bring a measure of relief to victims and their families.\n\"I am really repentant of my actions. I hope my sentence will bring some measure of peace to the victims and their families,\" he said. \nMontoya had been charged with heading the Norte Valle cartel, which rose to become Colombia's most powerful cocaine cartel after the demise of the Medellin and Cali cartels in the mid-1990s.\nIt is not yet known where Montaya will serve his sentence. However, William Clay, Montaya's attorney, requested that the location be near Miami.\nFederal officials said that the cartel supplied 60% of all Colombian cocaine transported to the US at its peak. Montoya, also known as Don Diego, was arrested in 2007 and extradited to the US last year. He was once on the FBI's top-ten most-wanted list, alongside al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. \nLast April, a US district judge in Florida sentenced Montoya's younger brother, Eugenio, to thirty years in prison on charges including conspiracy to import cocaine and obstruction of justice. The US government said that the Norte Valle cartel used \"violence and murder\" to prevent people from passing information to law enforcement officials and to \"instill fear.\""}
{"id": "141973", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141973", "title": "Shelling in Somalia's capital kills twenty", "text": "According to medical workers and witnesses, at least 20 people, including many civilians, have been killed in Somalia's capital of Mogadishu after one of the heaviest battles between Islamist militants and government forces in weeks. \nAli Muse, the head of Mogadishu's ambulance services, said at least 58 other people were wounded. Other reports put the number of injured as high as 70.\nWitnesses say the shelling began on Thursday at the city's international airport, as President Sharif Shekh Ahmed was heading to Uganda for an African Union meeting on refugees and internally displaced people. \nThe witnesses said that insurgents shot mortars at the airport and airplane and African Union peacekeepers returned fire. They say the busy Bakara market was also struck hard by mortar shells. Witnesses saw the dead bodies of at least six civilians there. The president was not hurt in the attack.\n\u201cAs the Somali president flew out to Kampala for a meeting of African presidents, Islamist insurgents began shelling the airport,\u201d said a spokesman for the presidency in an interview, Abdulkadir Mohamed Osman. \u201cPeacekeepers responded.\u201d\nVice chairman of the Elman Peace and Human Rights Organization in Mogadishu Ali Yasin Gedi said that \"insurgents fired mortar bombs at the plane carrying President Ahmed, and then AMISOM [the African Union Mission to Somalia] responded with shells. That is how the problem started.\"\nA paramedic working for the Lifeline Africa and Nationlink Ambulance Services, Ali Muse Sheikh, reported that around sixty people were hurt by the clashes. \u201cIt is one of the worst events I have ever seen. We don\u2019t have enough ambulances or private vehicles to collect the casualties. The number of casualties is increasing minute-by-minute,\u201d he said in a telephone interview.\nA shopkeeper in the Bakara market described his experiences to the Reuters news agency. \"They were taking cover in a concrete building, but such big shells can penetrate the strongest house. We can't go out to count how many more are dead. Bombs are raining on us,\" said Farah Olow.\nSince the first 1,500 peacekeepers from Uganda arrived in Mogadishu more than two years ago, AMISOM troops have been frequently attacked by Islamist insurgents seeking to overthrow the Somali government. In February, eleven peacekeepers from Burundi were killed by a suicide car bomber. Another seventeen peacekeepers, including the Burundian deputy force commander, were killed last month in twin suicide car bombings at the AMISOM base.\nAl-Shabab, a group the United States and other Western countries believe is al-Qaeda's proxy in the Horn of Africa, took responsibility for both of those attacks. \nSomalia has not had an effective stable government since 1991, when Siad Barre's government was overthrown by warlords who soon started fighting amongst themselves. The resulting violence has displaced over 1.5 million people, and killed 19,000 civilians since early 2007. The Al-Shabab group and its allies control a large portion of southern Somalia after a nearly three-year war against the Western-backed Somali government."}
{"id": "141980", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141980", "title": "Al-Shabab", "text": ""}
{"id": "141981", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141981", "title": "20 Killed in Somalia Shelling", "text": ""}
{"id": "141985", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141985", "title": "India's ruling Congress party leads in three key state polls", "text": "India's ruling Congress Party-led alliance scored victories in elections held in three states to choose local governments. The results will boost the Congress Party, as it re-emerges as the country's major political force. The results from the elections, which were held last week, began to come in on Thursday.\nThe party and its allies scored clear wins in two states: the western state of Maharashtra and the northeastern Arunachal Pradesh state. In the northern Haryana state, it emerged as the largest party, but failed to secure a majority. The largest and most influential of these states is Maharashtra state, an industrialized region which is home to India's financial capital, Mumbai.\n\"The government has worked in the last five years, and I feel that is the reason why we have been able to achieve this success,\" said Ashok Chavan, the state's Chief Minister. \"People have shown confidence, placing us in a position to form a government.\"\nThe Congress and its ally are currently ahead in 145 out of 288 seats in the Maharashtra state. If they manage to obtain those seats, it would enable them create a government without the help of other parties.\nAccording to election commission figures, the main opposition alliance, consisting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena, were leading in around ninety seats in the Maharashtra state.\nThis is the second time this year that the Congress Party has emerged victorious in key polls. Five months ago, the party scored a victory in national elections over the BJP.\nThursday's results have widely been seen as another major vote of confidence for the party, and its national leadership. Political analysts have suggested that this will help the national government, as it presses ahead with its policies, which include economic reforms.\nProfessor of History at Delhi University and political analyst Mahesh Rangarajan said that the Congress Party's winning streak showed its reemergence as a major political force. \"It is continuing to retain its hold on large and very popular states, so it is in the process of re-emerging as the pivot of the Indian political system,\" he said.\n\"Overall, this does indicate the secular shift of the voters towards the Congress as a party that can combine stability with inclusive growth. That trend which was clear in the recent general elections continues in the winter of 2009.\" \nAfter dominating Indian politics for decades, the Congress Party began to decline in the mid-1990's as the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party rose to power. However, the BJP's series of losses in recent elections have considerably weakened it."}
{"id": "141990", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141990", "title": "US Defense Secretary Gates to seek extra aid for Afghanistan", "text": "US Defense Secretary Robert Gates flew to Slovakia on Wednesday, to ask NATO defense ministers to help the United States respond to the request for more resources made by the US and NATO commander in Afghanistan, General Stanley McChrystal.\nGates told reporters on his aircraft that he believed it makes sense to have these talks now, because he said the effort to stabilize and develop Afghanistan is a NATO mission, not just one for the US.\n\"This is an alliance issue and my view all along has been we ought to do this in a way that if General McChrystal has an additional set of needs, it should not be looked upon as exclusively the responsibility of the United States to respond,\" the defense secretary remarked.\nGates said that since the NATO summit last spring he has seen \"more energy and more commitment\" among NATO nations to doing what is necessary to succeed in Afghanistan. He described current consultations with NATO allies as \"intense.\" General McChrystal says the allied effort could fail to prevent a militant takeover in Afghanistan unless he is given more resources. In a secret request, he is believed to be asking for 40,000 or more additional troops, on top of 68,000 U.S. and nearly 40,000 coalition troops already there. President Barack Obama is expected to decide on any additional US deployment soon.\nGates added that he wanted his NATO counterparts to consider what additional commitments they can also make to help reverse gains made by the Taliban and similar groups in recent years.\n\"My hope is that we can have a serious discussion about how things have changed in Afghanistan since last spring, and a way forward in which the alliance can share these responsibilities and work with the Afghan government to move the situation in a more positive direction,\" he said.\nBut the secretary noted that all contributions to the Afghanistan effort do not have to be military. He said he headed for Bratislava with a \"menu of options\" for allies to consider, and that much of the capability General McChrystal wanted is not controversial, such as civilian assistance, training, and financing for development projects.\nSpeaking early on Thursday during a visit to South Korea, Gates also welcomed the decision to hold a runoff to decide the Afghan presidential election, saying all nations involved have an interest in a smooth process to provide the winning candidate with as much legitimacy as possible.\n\"I think virtually all of the nations that increased their troop presence to provide security for the elections in August have kept those forces there and so are in a position to try and, along with their Afghan Army and police counterparts, provide as good a security as possible for the [runoff] elections,\" he said.\nGates, however, noted that will not end problems of corruption and weak governance in Afghanistan. He said the international community will still have much work to do with any new government in Kabul to provide the kind of stability, security and services that will have a chance of convincing the Afghan people to support the government, rather than the militants of the Taliban and al-Qaida. "}
{"id": "141999", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=141999", "title": "India's Ruling Congress Party Emerges Victorious in Key State Elections", "text": ""}
{"id": "142000", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142000", "title": "Colombian Drug Lord Receives 45-Year US Sentence", "text": ""}
{"id": "142001", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142001", "title": "Colombian drug lord Receives 45-year jail sentence in US", "text": ""}
{"id": "142002", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142002", "title": "British soldier dies in Afghanistan, UK death toll rises to 222", "text": "A British soldier has been killed in Afghanistan, taking the number of British deaths there since 2001 to 222.\nHe was a member of the Royal Military Police, and was killed while on foot patrol in the Helmand province, close to the Gereshk district in Southern Afghanistan. The cause of death has been reported to be an explosion, but the source is unclear.\n\"It is my sad duty to confirm the death of a soldier, a Royal Military Policeman, in an explosion earlier today in Helmand Province,\" Lieutenant Colonel David Wakefield said of the incident. \" He died doing his duty and we will remember him.\"\nThe deceased's family has been informed."}
{"id": "142013", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142013", "title": "Hopes for a treaty on climate are beginning to wither", "text": ""}
{"id": "142014", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142014", "title": "Gates Asks NATO for More Help in Afghanistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "142027", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142027", "title": "Red Cross member abducted in Darfur, Sudan", "text": "The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has said one of its staff members has been kidnapped in Sudan's Darfur region. In a statement, the ICRC said that Gauthier Lefevre, a French national, was abducted Thursday near the town of Al Geneina in West Darfur.\nIt added that Lefevre was traveling in one of two clearly marked Red Cross vehicles when unidentified kidnappers seized him around midday local time. The ICRC said the man \"was returning with other ICRC staff to El-Geneina after completing a field trip north of the town to help local communities upgrade their water supply systems.\" It also said that \"he was travelling in one of two clearly marked ICRC vehicles when he was seized a few kilometres [miles] from the town.\"\nThe agency said it is working with local authorities to secure the man's release.\nForeign aid groups have faced increased hostility in Darfur since the indicted Sudan's President earlier this year for alleged war crimes.\nTwo workers for the Irish aid group GOAL were kidnapped in July and spent three months in captivity before being released last Sunday. Two civilian employees of the joint United Nations\u2013African Union mission in Darfur still remain captive after being kidnapped in August."}
{"id": "142028", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142028", "title": "Panama-flagged ship hijacked off Somali coast by pirates", "text": "Suspected Somali pirates have hijacked the MV \"Al Khaliq\", a Panama-flagged ship, off the eastern coast of Africa on Thursday. International maritime officials said the ship was seized about 330 kilometers west of the Seychelles islands. \nOfficials reported that the ship is carrying 26 crew members \u2014 24 Indians and two Burmese. The \"Al Khaliq\" is the fourth ship Somali pirates have hijacked this month, and the third in the past week.\n\"The MV \"Al Khaliq\", a Panamanian-flagged bulk carrier, has been hijacked early this morning off Somalia,\" said a spokeswoman for the NATO's antipiracy mission in the UK. \"There were 26 crew on board, 24 of whom are Indian and two Burmese.\"\nThe mission confirmed that the ship had been hijacked. \"Within the last hour, an EU NAVFOR maritime patrol aircraft has confirmed the hijack of MV \"Al Khaliq\", [with] six pirates on board and two attack skiffs in tow,\" it said. \"The mother skiff [of the pirates] has already been taken on board with a crane.\"\nThe European Union's anti-piracy mission reported that crew members radioed for help before losing contact. An EU aircraft that flew over the scene reported seeing six pirates on board and the \"Al Khaliq\" towing two pirate skiffs. NATO's nearest defence ship was located about eight hours away from the \"Al Khaliq\" when it was overtaken by the pirates.\nThe EU and NATO also said that pirates released open fire on another ship, the Italian-flagged MV \"Jolly Rosso\", off the coast of Kenya on the same day. That ship, however, managed to escape by increasing its throttles to eighteen knots, a spokeswoman for the antipiracy mission said.\n\"The ship took appropriate evasive action, managed to evade the attack and is proceeding on her voyage. There were no casualties,\" read a statement by the mission.\nSomali pirates have hijacked dozens of ships over the last two years, taking in tens of millions of dollars in ransom money. The pirates are believed to be holding seven ships in all. A new report on the pirates suggests that current international strategies to stop the hijackings are not effective.\nThe report, put out by the Norwegian Institute for Urban and Regional Research, said the international naval patrols off Somalia's coast are expensive, and that the pirates can evade the patrols or escape to shore. It also noted that efforts to combat piracy by strengthening Somalia's Western-backed government are limited, because the pirates come from specific regions and clans, far away from the capital.\nThe researchers, however, said that there are centers of power close to the pirate bases, and that these can be allies in fighting piracy. The researchers say that to effectively combat piracy, the international community needs to support these local structures."}
{"id": "142029", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142029", "title": "Another Ship Hijacked Off Somali Coast", "text": ""}
{"id": "142033", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142033", "title": "Red Cross Member Abducted in Darfur", "text": ""}
{"id": "142040", "revid": "180829", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142040", "title": "Big Ben dropped from ITV News at Ten opening sequence", "text": "ITV have dropped images of the face of Big Ben from the title sequence of ITV\u2019s News at Ten. ITN announced that the images were being removed as the show begins a revamp. The change comes as the company wants to engage with viewers who live outside of London where Big Ben is situated. The changes will be made on November 2 of this year. \nThe bongs that come from the clock's bell will however remain as part of a new soundtrack.\nThe ITV news returned in 2001 at the new time of 10:30 pm but was later changed back to its original timeslot of 10:00 pm in 2008. The original ITV News at 10 was dropped in 1999 after 32 years on air. \nCurrent anchors Mark Austin and Julie Etchingham will remain as the show's presenters after the revamp. "}
{"id": "142047", "revid": "70202", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142047", "title": "Ciudad Juarez, Mexico's murder rate becomes world's highest", "text": "The murder rate in , Mexico has become the highest in the world. There were an average of seven killings every day for the past twelve months in the city, which is currently in the midst of a clash between two powerful drug cartels.\nThe majority of the 1,986 murders this year remain unsolved, and most involve drug gang members who have come from elsewhere to fight for control of the drug smuggling route into neighbouring El Paso, Texas, as well as the lucrative local trade in drugs. There is a jump of 815 murders from last year.\n107 women, 85 children, and 49 police officers are among the dead and many people have met particularly violent ends. One man was tethered between two trucks and ripped apart; others have been decapitated or dismembered. The violence results from a turf war between rivals Juarez cartel and Sinaloa cartel, the latter being run by the most wanted man in the country, .\nIn late 2006 authorities launched a crackdown on Mexican drugs cartels, with Ciudad Juarez receiving 45,000 troops during that time. However, this has failed to prevent the gangs battling to control the cocaine-smuggling trade run from the city.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "142071", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142071", "title": "6.2 magnitude earthquake strikes Afghanistan, Pakistan", "text": "An earthquake with a magnitude of 6.2 struck the Hindu Kush mountains of Afghanistan along the border with Pakistan early on Friday, the US Geological Survey reported.\nThe tremors, which started at 00.21 local time (19.51 UTC), were felt in the capitals of both countries. There were no immediate reports of deaths or destruction from the earthquakes.\nA reporter for the Al Jazeera news agency said that the initial earthquake lasted for several seconds, and was followed by a heavy aftershock.\nIn October 2005, a heavy 7.6 magnitude earthquake struck northwestern Pakistan, displacing over three million people and killing almost 75,000. A 6.9 magnitude tremor in 1998 killed over 50,000 and caused flooding and mudslides."}
{"id": "142077", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142077", "title": "More than 300 arrested in over two days after US drug operation", "text": "The US Justice Department said on Thursday more than 300 people have been arrested in the United States over the past two days, as part of a massive operation targeting the La Familia Mexican drug cartel. \nAttorney General Eric Holder told reporters on Thursday that the recent arrests are part of a 44-month, multi-agency law enforcement investigation known as Project Coronado. Holder called the operation the largest coordinated US law enforcement operation ever undertaken against a Mexican drug cartel. He added that the reach of the cartel stretches well into the US. \n\"This operation has dealt a significant blow to La Familia's supply chain of illegal drugs, weapons, and cash flowing between Mexico and the United States,\" said Holder.\nAccording to Holder, the authorities seized 109 vehicles, 144 weapons, an unconfirmed quantity of methamphetamine, 137 pounds (62 kilograms) of cocaine, 967 pounds (439 kilograms) of marijuana, and US$3.4 million in cash after the raids. \"These are drugs that were headed for our streets, and weapons that often were headed for the streets of Mexico,\" noted Holder.\nThe Attorney General described the cartel as the \"most violent\" of the Mexico drug cartels.\nThousands of people have died in drug-related violence in Mexico in recent years."}
{"id": "142080", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142080", "title": "Military Aircraft Crashes in Afghanistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "142081", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142081", "title": "More Than 300 Arrested Over Two Days in Major US Drug Operation", "text": ""}
{"id": "142085", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142085", "title": "Ethiopia appeals for food aid for over 6 million", "text": "The government of Ethiopia has appealed the international community for food aid for 6.2 million people that it says are in danger of starvation.\nMitiku Kassa, the Ethiopian State Minister for Agriculture, said that the country needs about 159,000 tonnes of food aid, worth US$121 million, between now and the end of the year.\n\"[Since] January, the country continues to face several humanitarian challenges in food and livelihood security, health, nutrition, and in water and sanitation,\" he said to donors. Kassa added that close to 80,000 children younger than five years old were affected by acute malnutrition.\nThis comes after a lengthy drought hit the region, also affecting the neighbouring countries of Kenya and Somalia. Droughts in Ethiopia can bring about especially disastrous effects, as the economy is dependent mainly on agriculture, and over four fifths of the population lives off the land."}
{"id": "142086", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142086", "title": "Kenya government reform record to be reviewed by AU experts", "text": "Kenya has agreed to be reviewed by a team of African Union (AU) experts in November to assess the country's political reform record. The review is to be conducted by the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM).\nThe review, which was sanctioned by the African Union Heads of States, will determine the Kenyan unity government's performance since it was created last year, following a disputed election and resulting violence.\nAPRM Prime Minister Wycliffe Oparanya launched the preparatory activities for the assessment on Thursday. \u201cThe exercise will have particular emphasis on the institutions and stakeholders charged with carrying out the envisaged reforms,\u201d Oparanya said.\nThe Lead Panelist for the APRM for Kenya, Graca Machel, will lead the review team. The assessment is scheduled to be conducted between November 16 and 20.\nThis comes several weeks after former United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan encouraged the Kenyan government to speed up its reforms.\nThe APRM was created in 2003, and Kenya was one of the first ten African countries to acede to it. Under the review, which is voluntary, countries evaluate themselves, before a team of AU experts carry out an independent review. Results of the assessment are given to a Heads of State and Governments summit."}
{"id": "142092", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142092", "title": "Suicide bomb blast hits air force base in Pakistan", "text": "A suicide bomber attacked the Chaklala airbase in the Punjab province of northern Pakistan this morning, killing at least four civilians and two air force personnel at a security checkpoint.\nThe blast took place in Kamra, approximately 50\u00a0km (30\u00a0mi) away from Islamabad, near Rawalpindi and the Pakistan Aeronautical Complex (PAC). The attacker had apparently hoped to enter the airbase, but detonated his explosives while at the checkpoint when officers suggested they wanted to search his clothing.\nWith some outlets reporting as many as eight deaths, between nine and thirteen people were believed wounded, although their identities haven't been disclosed, said Fakhar Sultan, District Police chief.\nPrime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani condemned the suicide attack, and repeated that his government would not waver from its goal to \"root out terrorism\".\nThis was the second time that Kamra was targeted, the first being in December 2007. International groups have suggested that Pakistan may keep its nuclear-armed aircraft at the base."}
{"id": "142098", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142098", "title": "Suicide bomb blast in air force base in Pakistan kills 6", "text": ""}
{"id": "142113", "revid": "26321", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142113", "title": "Suicide bomb blast in air force base in Pakistan kills 7", "text": ""}
{"id": "142129", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142129", "title": "Canadian news doesn't interest Prime Minister, prefers to watch American", "text": "Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper caused controversy this week after telling Toronto business leaders that he prefers to watch American news programmes instead of Canadian.\nOn Wednesday, he told the Canadian Chamber of Commerce Convention that he watched \"mainly American news\" and suggested it was his hobby \"to watch politics elsewhere\". The \"Toronto Star\" says his \"words ring true\" in light of the interviews he's given to American broadcasters like Fox News and CNN.\nThree of Harper's cabinet members, Jim Flaherty, Peter Kent and Tony Clement, questioned the veracity of his statement, stating they \"assume\" he must digest some Canadian news issues. But Immigration Minister Jason Kenney said \"I think the prime minister is too busy to sit there being vainglorious and watching himself on TV.\"\nPolitical opponents were quick to draw attention to the admission by the Prime Minister, whom they claim has always had American interests at heart during his career. \nThe \"Star\" quoted NDP leader Jack Layton, stating \"Perhaps if he watched Canadian news more often, he would understand the negative impact of his policies on Canadian families. And if he actually likes Fox News better than Canadian news, then Canadians ought to be concerned\".\nLiberal Bob Rae likewise pointed out that politicians \"all have an obligation to know what's going on\", and noted he found the admission \"quite shocking\".\nA statement released by the Prime Minister's Office clarified that Harper watched hockey on national networks, but took his news from American networks."}
{"id": "142136", "revid": "3741", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142136", "title": "Canadian news stories don't interest Prime Minister, prefers to watch American networks", "text": ""}
{"id": "142151", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142151", "title": "Jet flies 150 miles past destination in US; pilots say they were distracted", "text": " \nThe National Transportation Safety Board of the United States, Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are all probing an incident in which a Northwest Airlines jet flew 150 miles past its destination.\nThe Airbus A320 was traveling from San Diego International Airport, San Diego, California with 147 passengers when it ceased to respond to radio communications as it flew through an area of sky controlled from Denver at 5:56 p.m. yesterday. It was passed on to Minneapolis as non-responsive and subsequently overflew the airport without changing altitude from its 37,000 foot cruising height.\nVarious controllers tried to contact the plane, some sending text messages, and the Federal Aviation Administration asked Northwest to get their dispatcher to hail the aircraft, but to no avail. Communications were reestablished 16 minutes after the plane passed the airport at 8:14 p.m. when controllers asked two other Northwest planes to try talking to the unresponsive jet.\nAuthorities had been so concerned of a possible hijacking that fighter jets were put on standby in Madison, Wisconsin and the crew were ordered to perform a set of maneuvers to prove they were in control of their aircraft before turning round and flying the 150 mile return trip to their intended destination at Minneapolis, where they landed at around 9 p.m.\nThe FBI and airport police both interviewed the flight crew after landing and were told the crew lost awareness of their location during \"a heated discussion over airline policy,\" according to the safety board, which is going to conduct its own interviews. The board has also recovered the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder, and both have been sent to Washington DC to be examined.\nAuthorities have indicated that they will also look into the possibility the crew had fallen asleep. Although rare, it is not unknown; last year a go! airliner flew 26 miles past its target airport in Hawaii before the crew woke up and made contact with controllers."}
{"id": "142155", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142155", "title": "Jet flies 150 miles past destinationin US; pilots say they were distracted", "text": ""}
{"id": "142167", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142167", "title": "American pilots forget to land, fly 150 miles past airport", "text": ""}
{"id": "142185", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142185", "title": "Afghanistan prepares for presidential runoff election", "text": "Afghanistan is getting ready for a second-round presidential election between President Hamid Karzai and former Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah. The second round comes after the election commission nullified nearly one million votes cast in August's presidential polls. The investigation brought Mr. Karzai's vote count below 50 percent, enough to trigger a runoff. The United Nations has begun delivering ballots across Afghanistan to prepare for the November 7 runoff.\nU.S. President Barack Obama has said that the runoff reflects the will of the Afghan people and he may withhold his decision on U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan until after the new polls. The remarks followed his meeting with U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman John Kerry, who has just returned from the Afghan capital, Kabul.\n\"I think you really want to know that this has worked and you want to know what kind of government is coming out of it,\" Obama said.\nAn analyst at the Institute for the Study of War, Haseeb Humayoon, believes Mr. Karzai may win again. \"If we look at the numbers and how they have turned out, President Karzai has a much stronger base than Dr. Abdullah Abdullah and that may play a role in the second round as well,\" he explained.\nBut questions remain about the deals Mr. Karzai struck with local powers of remote Afghan regions to win their support. \n\"I think one has to look at that with a lot of caution, because while electorally those deals might have returns, in terms of government efficiency down the line they are questionable,\" Humayoon added.\nHowever Rick Nelson at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. says it is wrong to look at the Afghan political landscape through a Western lens.\n\"President Karzai has been very aggressive in trying to cut deals and trying to build partnerships,\" he noted. \"But given the circumstances in which he is trying to operate, if he can cut deals with rival factions and it results in a stable Afghanistan, that is something we may want to support.\"\nAnother scenario presented by some experts is one in which the August election runner up, Mr. Abdullah, wins this time around. Nelson says he may not belong to the Pashtun majority tribe, but he is not that different politically than Mr. Karzai.\n\"He is not a full Pashtun, he is a little bit Tajik as well, and that may change the dynamics with the United States,\" Mr. Nelson added. \"But it probably is not going to change the overall U.S. policy too much.\"\nThere is also the chance that the two contenders will come up with some sort of an agreement to share power and avoid the runoff. While some analysts say this is unlikely, Nelson is optimistic.\n\"If there is a unity government in advance, it certainly puts the whole election legitimacy question aside, and will enable the United States and NATO to move forward in their partnership with Afghanistan,\" he said.\nIn Washington, U.S. officials have said a power-sharing arrangement between the two leaders would be totally up to the Afghans."}
{"id": "142192", "revid": "206860", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142192", "title": "Canada acquits man wrongly jailed for over a decade over teen girl's murder", "text": "Canadian authorities have dropped charges against 38-year-old Kyle Unger, who has served more than a decade in jail for a murder he did not commit. Hair from 16-year-old Brigitte Grenier's body was used to convict him and has since been linked to someone else.\nThe case began at a rock concert near Winnipeg on June 23, 1990. Grenier attended the concert but then failed to return home. Her naked body was recovered from a nearby creek the following day in the grounds of the Roseisle ski resort that hosted the event. She had been beaten and sexually assaulted.\nUnger later confessed to an undercover police officer posing as a drug dealer, and was charged alongside Timothy Houlahan. Both were found guilty, with Unger's conviction helped by male hair recovered from the victim, which a forensics expert testified had come from the innocent man.\nUnger, who had been imprisoned since being charged in 1991, was sentenced on February 29, 1992 to a minimum of 25 years imprisonment. The following year the Manitoba Court of Appeal dismissed his appeal and the Supreme Court of Canada refused to hear it. In 1994 Houlahan's conviction was overturned and he was released on bail pending a retrial; the 21-year-old chose instead to take his own life.\nIn 2003 the area's Forensic Evidence Review Committee (FERC) began to look at cases involving hair samples. The next year authorities reported that they were able to relocate the hair used in the Grenier case, which they had previously believed to have been destroyed. Several months afterwards FERC said that the hair was not Unger's.\nIt would be another year before Justice Holly Beard ruled in November 2005 that Unger should be released while his case was reviewed. On November 24, 2005 he was set free after nearly 14 years wrongly imprisoned. The review was completed this year and in March the conviction was overturned. A retrial was ordered by Federal Justice Minister Rob Nicholson.\nHowever, prosecutors today decided that a retrial was highly unlikely to result in a conviction owing to the fact that no physical evidence links Unger to the slaying. He was formally acquitted of first-degree murder today. Grenier's family have maintained that they believe in his guilt.\n\"It's the first day of the rest of my life, a new beginning,\" Unger said after leaving court today. He now lives in British Columbia. He said he was not angry over what happened to him, just upset. \"When you feed off anger it just takes more from you. They already took my younger years away from me, why let them have my mind?\" He says of his confession to the men he thought were gangsters that it was because he wanted to work for them: \"When you're young, naive and desperate for money, they hold a lot of promises to you, so you say and do what you have to do to survive, just like in prison.\"\n\"Right now we are joyful that the man has an acquittal,\" said Unger's lawyer, Hersh Wolch. \"This is a momentous day. The (justice) minister ... rarely sends the matter to a retrial. Rarely. Tell me of one. And then an acquittal? It's virtually unheard of. It is unheard of. So this is huge.\"\nManitoba's Attorney General Dave Chomiak says he will not be compensated despite his wrongful conviction because of his false confession. Prosecutor George Dangerfield, who convicted the pair in 1992, is having his cases reviewed owing to being involved in two previous separate miscarriages of justice \u2014 wrongful murder convictions against Thomas Sophonow and James Driskell.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "142209", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142209", "title": "Afghanistan Prepares for Presidential Runoff", "text": ""}
{"id": "142223", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142223", "title": "Russian passenger airliner makes safe landing in Moscow after concerns of gear damage", "text": "A Russian passenger airliner safely landed at the Vnukovo airport in Moscow on Saturday, after concerns that its landing gear might have been damaged.\nThe plane, an Airbus A330 with 267 passengers aboard, had departed from Vladivostok, en route to Moscow. Shortly after takeoff, pieces of landing gear were discovered on the runway, which were \"most likely from that particular airplane,\" according to an Emergency Ministry spokesman.\nIt was decided to continue to Moscow instead of returning to Vladivostok to land, since the latter option would require the plane to burn or dump off excess fuel before preparing to make an emergency landing.\nOleg Pesko, the chief of the Vnukovo airport press center, said that the Airbus made a safe non-emergency landing at the airport just before 11.00 UTC. He said that the emergency services of the airport had been placed on alert before the landing, and that the Vladivostok Avia airline, which operated the jet, would conduct an investigation into whether the tyres were indeed damaged.\n\"It's still unknown whether the problem was with this Airbus or not. The airline will find out after a special examination,\" he said.\nPassengers on board the flight said that they were not aware of any problems while en route. \"The flight went smoothly, there was nothing unusual. We were only told where we were and what temperature it was outside,\" one passenger said, as quoted by the NTV news agency."}
{"id": "142227", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142227", "title": "Zimbabwean police raid MDC party's offices", "text": "According to the Zimbabwean finance minister, a building belonging to Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai's Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party was raided by police on Friday. The police had reportedly been searching for weapons.\nThe MDC secretary-general, Tendai Biti, said that the house, located in a suburb of Zimbabwe's capital Harare, was \"ransacked\" by several dozen armed policemen after dark on Friday. One of the rooms in the building had been searched, and police confiscated what Biti called \"valuable party documents\".\nThe secretary-general accused President Robert Mugabe's Zanu-PF party of being behind the \nraid, wanting the country's unity government to fail, describing it as \"provocation\". \"They are behind this attack. Our decision of pulling out of the inclusive government infuriated ZANU-PF and this is the price we now pay for that decision,\" he said.\nThe police have not yet released a statement regarding the raid.\nTsvangirai and his MDC party had pulled out of the coalition government last week, accusing Mugabe\u2019s party of not complying with the unity government deal made last year, and oppressing opponents. Mugabe, however, dismissed the boycott, calling it a \u201cnon-event\u201d, and said that his party would not alter its plans or agree to the MDC's demands."}
{"id": "142228", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142228", "title": "Niger\u2019s ruling party wins majority in parliament after elections", "text": "According to Niger\u2019s election commission, President 's party won a large majority in the after recent elections held on Tuesday.\n76 of 113 total seats were taken by Tandja's party, and a further 21 seats were taken by smaller parties supportive of the president. Twelve independents also received seats in the parliament. Opposition parties boycotted the ballot after Tandja altered the constitution to allow him to extend his time in office past the limit of ten years, and seek a third term.\nReports of turnout varied widely, indicating that between 18% and 80% of people voted. Turnout in rural areas was reported to have been higher, while fewer voters cast their ballots in Niger's capital .\nThe elections, however, have been condemned by some in the international community. The polls were organised despite pressure for them to be postponed. Several days ago, the ECOWAS trade bloc suspended Niger when it refused to heed calls to postpone the ballot, and said it would not recognise the election\u2019s results. The country\u2019s Foreign Minister Aichatou Mindaoudou responded to ECOWAS\u2019 decision, saying that the bloc didn\u2019t understand Niger\u2019s political dynamics. Niger has asked for the bloc to reconsider the suspension."}
{"id": "142233", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142233", "title": "Heavy 7.0 magnitude earthquake hits Indonesia", "text": "A heavy earthquake with a magnitude of 7.0 struck deep underwater off the eastern shores of Indonesia on Saturday, officials said.\nAccording to the US Geological Survey, the earthquake's epicentre was located 365 kilometers into the Banda Sea, southeast of Ambon Island in the Maluku Islands.\nMany people rushed to higher ground following the earthquake, fearing that a tsunami was generated, but the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said the quake was too deep below the surface to cause any waves. A tsunami alert was initially issued by Indonesia, but it was soon lifted.\nThe earthquake comes as Indonesia is still recovering from a powerful tremor that struck the area last month, which killed over a thousand people in western Sumatra.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "142234", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142234", "title": "Heavy 7.0 earthquake hits Indonesia", "text": ""}
{"id": "142236", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142236", "title": "Obama declares swine flu emergency in US", "text": "US president Barack Obama declared a swine flu emergency in the country on Saturday, according to a statement released by the White House.\nObama signed a declaration late on Friday, authorising health secretary Kathleen Sebelius to bypass some federal rules, in order to let health officials respond more efficiently to the outbreak of the H1N1 virus. The move is aimed at making it less difficult for people affected by the virus to seek treatment, and allow medical providers to give it immediately, bypassing potential hurdles such as health privacy regulations.\n\"As a nation, we have prepared at all levels of government, and as individuals and communities, taking unprecedented steps to counter the emerging pandemic,\" the president wrote in the declaration.\nSwine flu has now been circulated in 46 of the 50 US states, and has resulted in at least 411 confirmed deaths since the end of August. Production of antiviral vaccines has been slower than initially predicted, and it is likely that the US government's targets for delivery won't be met by drug makers, according to Thomas Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention."}
{"id": "142243", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142243", "title": "At least 25 dead after train crash in Egypt", "text": "A train crash in Egypt killed at least 25 people on Saturday, officials said. Varying reports gave the number of injured between 24 and 55. Police officials have warned, however, that the true death toll might be much higher.\nThe incident occurred in the village of Guerzah, near the city of Giza. Two passengers trains were travelling in the same direction on the same track, when the one in front made an unexpected stop, reportedly after driving over a cow. The train behind it, however, continued cruising at a normal speed until running into the back of the stopped train.\nA security official said to the Agence France-Presse news agency that \"the trains were travelling on the same track. One ran into the other as they headed towards Upper Egypt.\"\nTens of ambulances were dispatched to the scene of the accident. A crane was even used by rescue teams to lift a crushed wagon to try and find bodies underneath it.\nRailway accidents along Egypt's busy networks are not infrequent. At least twenty people were killed when a bus was hit by a train in northwestern Egypt in July of last year. In August 2006, 58 died and over a hundred were wounded after a train slammed into another one on the tracks. The country's worst rail disaster, however, was in February 2002, when at least 361 were killed after a passenger set fire to a moving train while using a stove."}
{"id": "142252", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142252", "title": "British pilot dies in plane crash; nine passengers survive", "text": "A British pilot has died in a plane crash in the Caribbean Sea but managed to help save the lives of the nine passengers on the plane. Robert Mansell, aged 32, was a pilot who lived in the village of Knowle in the West Midlands of England. He had previously worked with Windward Islands Airways but was flying planes for Divi Divi Air at the time of his death.\nAt 0930 local time, Mansell was flying with his nine passengers between the Caribbean islands of Cura\u00e7ao and Bonaire when the right engine of his Britten-Norman Islander light aircraft failed. At this time the height above sea level was roughly 3,500 feet. The pilot made a mayday call. It has emerged that the last words that he said on the transmission were: \"I\u2019ve lost control of one of my engines\u2026so long.\" The aircraft then crashed into the Caribbean Sea. \nThe passengers \u2014 seven of them local, two of them tourists from the Netherlands \u2014 managed to escape from the plane and were rescued by services in the area. The impact of the crash caused the pilot and several passengers to lose consciousness, however the passengers managed to recover and escape, suffering only minor head injuries.\nTwo passengers tried to rescue the pilot as the plane was beginning to sink and Robert was still unconscious. However, the crash had damaged the safety harness attached to the pilot, and the passengers were unable to free him. They were left with no choice but to escape through the plane door when they noticed that it was beginning to sink. The body of Mansell has yet to be found but the Foreign and Commonwealth Office has now confirmed that he died on Wednesday, with a spokesperson for them saying: \"We are aware of the death of a British national in a plane crash near Cura\u00e7ao.\"\n\"He's a hero,\" said Simon Janzen from Divi Divi Air. \"All the passengers survived and he is the only one missing. If he wasn't a good pilot, he couldn't have ditched it so everyone could be saved. Other pilots wouldn't have known what to do but he landed the aircraft so that everyone could get out safely.\"\nRobert Mansell's father Roger expressed his disapproval. \"I am furious,\" commented Roger. \"If you have nine people on board and a plane is overloaded and a problem develops, it becomes much harder to fix.\" Roger said that Robert had repeatedly explained to him problems about overloading, as the weight of the luggage and the passengers was not checked properly. Roger continued: \"He was a wonderful son and a hero. Quite how he managed to bring the plane down in the water like that without it breaking apart is beyond me. It is a miracle that the passengers survived.\"\nIn response to the allegations made, Germaine Richie who is the owner of Divi Divi Air, made a comment saying: \"We reject any allegations that we are overloading planes and putting safety at risk.\""}
{"id": "142280", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142280", "title": "British pilot dies in plane crash; 9 passengers survive", "text": ""}
{"id": "142296", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142296", "title": "Car bombings near Iraq government offices kill at least 130", "text": "At least 132 people were killed on Sunday after two car bombings struck the Iraqi capital of Baghdad. Over 500 were hurt in the attacks, which were the worst to strike the country in over two years.\nThe attacks occurred at the Justice Ministry building and a provincial government office close to the high-security Green Zone part of the city. The explosions came during rush hour, at 10.30 local time (07.30 UTC).\nOfficials have warned that the death toll is likely to rise, as rescue workers are still searching underneath the rubble of collapsed buildings to find more bodies.\nSources gave conflicting reports as to whether suicide bombers were involved in the attacks, or whether the bombs had been detonated remotely. According to the police, cars loaded with explosives had been parked in garages close to the targeted buildings.\nSo many people were wounded in the blasts that private cars helped ambulances transport bodies to local hospitals. Rescue efforts were hindered by the heavy rush hour traffic. The buildings targeted by the bombings caught fire, and officials had to close down roads nearby as fire trucks tried to quell the flames.\nYasmeen Afdhal, 24, who works for the Baghdad provincial administration, was a witness to one of the bombings. He described his experiences: \"the walls collapsed and we had to run out. There are many wounded, and I saw them being taken away. They were pulling victims out of the rubble, and rushing them to ambulances.\"\nIraqi council member Mohammed al-Rubaiey said that about 25 staff members of the Baghdad Provincial Council, which runs the country's capital, died in the bombings.\nHamid Saadi, the owner of a shop near the blast, told the news agency Reuters that the explosion caused significant destruction. \"The explosion destroyed everything [...] it's like it was an earthquake, nothing is still in its place,\" he said.\nA reporter for the BBC said that the force of the blast was so strong that it could be felt for several miles away.\nPrime Minister Nouri Maliki accused al-Qaeda of being behind the bombings. \"These cowardly terrorist attacks must not affect the determination of the Iraqi people to continue their struggle against the remnants of the dismantled regime and al-Qaeda terrorists, who committed a brutal crime against civilians,\" he said in a statement. \"They want to cause chaos in the nation, hinder the political process and prevent the parliamentary election.\" \nThe attacks come ahead of planned elections, which are to be held next January. The authorities have warned that more such attacks could take place by rebels wishing to destabilise Iraq.\nWhile violence in the country has dropped substantially since the height of sectarian fighting, the attacks were the second major security breach in Baghdad - a city filled with checkpoints - in two months. Twin bombings in August of this year struck another two government buildings, killing about 100 people."}
{"id": "142311", "revid": "206860", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142311", "title": "Tunisia holds presidential and parliamentary elections", "text": "Tunisians were to vote on Sunday in a presidential election, largely expected to be another landslide victory for the incumbent president Zine al- Abidine Ben Ali. Elections will also be held to select members of parliament.\nThere are three opposition candidates on the ballot, among them Mohamed Bouchiha, the general secretary of People's Unity Party, and Ahmed Inoubli for the Unionist Democratic Union, and Ahmed Brahim, the head of Ettajdid Movement.\nThe 73-year-old president has run the North African country for more than two decades. He won the last presidential election in 2004 with more than 94 percent of the vote.\nSome international rights groups have accused the government of ensuring victory for Ben Ali by harassing the opposition. In a televised address on Saturday, however, the president responded to critics, saying actions will be taken against those spreading doubts or accusations about the integrity of the election without providing proof.\n\"I am convinced that when you go to the polls and exercise your right to choose, you will place, with freedom and conviction, Tunisia's interest and future above all other considerations,\" he said."}
{"id": "142322", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142322", "title": "Tunisians Vote in Presidential Election", "text": ""}
{"id": "142323", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142323", "title": "At least nine dead after cholera outbreak in Kenyan slum", "text": "Health officials have said that at least nine people were killed and over sixty remain in critical condition on Saturday after an outbreak of cholera in a slum in Kenya's capital Nairobi.\nA mission hospital in the Mukuru kwa Njenga district of Nairobi said that the first cases had been reported on Monday, but had increased substantially by Friday.\n\"We have so far recorded nine deaths from the Mukuru slums in Nairobi and some of them might have also died at home and so we believe this number is very conservative because it is not accounting for home deaths,\" said a physician at the Kenyatta National Hospital.\nThe outbreak has been blamed on poor sanitation and low levels of hygiene. Community health worker Peninah Nzuki told the Daily Nation news agency that \u201cthe water is dirty and the levels of hygiene are poor, thus the disease is spreading fast.\"\nOfficials, however, have warned that the true death toll may be higher than indicated, as some people might have died before reaching hospitals."}
{"id": "142324", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142324", "title": "At least nine dead after cholera out break in Kenyan slum", "text": ""}
{"id": "142333", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142333", "title": "Pakistani army seizes Taliban stronghold after week-long battle", "text": "Pakistani armed forces say they have captured the town of Kotkai on Saturday, the hometown of Chief and one of his top officers, Qari Hussain. \nThis comes after a week-long battle was launched on Monday, in part of an operation to curb the influence of the Taliban in . The operation began the previous Saturday when Pakistani forces approached from three separate areas of South Waziristan. Pakistan plans to trap Taliban within the area while approaching the towns of Makeen and Ladha, both of which are major Taliban strongholds.\nMajor General Athar Abbas, the chief spokesman for the military, said at a news briefing that \"we have complete control of Kotkai, a stronghold of the terrorists, where most of the houses had been converted into strong bunkers. This is a very important development tactically.\"\nSo far, Pakistani officials have reported that 163 militants have been killed, while the military sustained 23 casualties. However, there was no independent confirmation for the tolls.\nThe entire area has been closed off, but there have been recent acts of violence which have officials worried. In recent weeks, Pakistan has seen attacks on police centers, military headquarters and a UN building. There have also been five attacks on an Islamic university in Islamabad, the capital.\nIt has been reported that over 21,000 civilian families, an estimated 153,000 individuals, have fled South Waziristan, and have taken refuge in the . "}
{"id": "142334", "revid": "980", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142334", "title": "Pakistani army seizes Tliban stronghold after week-long battle", "text": ""}
{"id": "142339", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142339", "title": "Academy Award-winning film director Paul Haggis leaves Scientology", "text": "Academy Award-winning film director Paul Haggis declared to Scientology spokesman Tommy Davis that he had decided to leave the Church of Scientology after being a member for 35 years. His letter to Davis was posted Saturday on the blog of former high-ranking Scientology official Marty Rathbun. Haggis received Academy Awards for writing and producing the 2004 film \"Crash\", which he also directed.\nRathbun confirmed the authenticity of the letter by Haggis, and \"The Hollywood Reporter\" also confirmed it with a friend of the director. At his blog, Rathbun has been critical of Scientology's current leader David Miscavige. In the June article \"Former Scientology executives say leader David Miscavige abused staff\", \"Wikinews\" reported on criticism by Rathbun and other high-ranking officials that was published in a series of investigative articles in the \"St. Petersburg Times\". In his letter to Davis, Haggis wrote that he read the series in the \"St. Petersburg Times\", where these former Scientology officials accused David Miscavige of physically abusing Scientologists. He criticized the manner in which the Church of Scientology attempted to smear the former officials after they spoke out against the organization.\nWell-known celebrity Scientologists include actors Tom Cruise and John Travolta. Haggis had not been known to be a vocal public supporter of Scientology prior to his declaration to Davis that he was leaving the organization.\nHe expressed his disappointment to Davis, son of actress Anne Archer, that the San Diego, California branch of the Church of Scientology supported Proposition 8. Proposition 8 removed the rights of same-sex couples to marry in California. The San Diego Church of Scientology was listed along with other groups on a Proposition 8 supporters website, but it was later removed. Haggis said that Davis initially told him he would do something about the San Diego Church of Scientology's support for Proposition 8, but in the end Davis did not take action about this. Haggis called the inaction by Davis with regard to the San Diego Church of Scientology's stance on homosexuality \"cowardly\". Scientology views of homosexuality are controversial, and the introductory work to the topic \"Dianetics\" by Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard describes homosexuality as a form of sexual perversion. Haggis wrote to Davis that he did not wish to stay a member \"of an organization where gay-bashing was tolerated\", and called such behavior \"indefensible\". \nActress Deborah Rennard, wife of Haggis, was introduced to Scientology by her parents. According to Haggis, the Scientology practice of \"disconnection\" was imposed on Rennard and her husband, and they were ordered to disconnect from her parents because Rennard's parents had violated a rule of the organization. Due to having undergone a personal experience with regard to Scientology's practice of disconnection, Haggis was surprised to hear Davis deny the policy existed in an interview with CNN journalist John Roberts.\nHe concluded his letter to Davis by noting that his Scientologist friends might disassociate from him due to his words, writing, \"...I am fully aware that some of my friends may choose to no longer associate with me, or in some cases work with me. I will always take their calls, as I always took yours. However, I have finally come to the conclusion that I can no longer be a part of this group. Frankly, I had to look no further than your refusal to denounce the church's anti-gay stance, and the indefensible actions, and inactions, of those who condone this behavior within the organization. I am only ashamed that I waited this many months to act. I hereby resign my membership in the Church of Scientology.\" \nRoger Friedman of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" described the film director's decision to leave the Church of Scientology as \"a stunning move\". Friedman wrote that \"Haggis has taken an enormous step here, and one that should resonate among all celebrity Scientologists.\" Tony Ortega of \"The Village Voice\" called Haggis's declaration to Davis \"a remarkable letter\", and Gina Serpe of \"E! Online\" wrote \"True, he was nowhere near the religion's most famous celebrity practitioner, but he will no doubt now go down as one of its most infamous, thanks to the inevitably viral publication of his resignation letter\". Writing for \"Movieline\", Kyle Buchanan characterized the letter by Haggis as \"a candid, confrontational letter to Scientology top brass\", and said \"It's a must-read.\" \"Radar Online\" observed \"In a shock heard-round-the-Scientology world, Paul Haggis has very publicly quit the organization.\" Foster Kamer wrote for \"Gawker\" that the letter by Haggis was \"incredibly damning\" to Scientology, and Adam McDowell of \"National Post\" called it \"a scathing letter about church policy\". Vicki Hyman of \"The Star-Ledger\" called Haggis \"the most famous name (if not face) to renounce the Church of Scientology\", and Xan Brooks wrote in \"The Guardian\" that \"the Church of Scientology lost one of its most high-profile members\". According to \"The Guardian\", the Church of Scientology has not yet responded publicly to the statements made by Haggis in his letter to Davis.\nHaggis has multiple credits in film, including work as writer-director for \"Crash\", and writer for \"Million Dollar Baby\" (directed by Clint Eastwood), \"Casino Royale\", \"Quantum of Solace\", and \"Letters From Iwo Jima\". Both \"Million Dollar Baby\" (2004) and \"Crash\" (2005) won Academy Awards for Best Picture, making Haggis the first film writer since 1950 to pen movies which won Best Picture Oscars in consecutive years. He is highly-regarded for his work as a humanitarian and for his civil liberties work, and his letter includes a list of awards he has received related to his dedication to civil rights. He is currently working on the film \"The Next Three Days\", which includes actors Liam Neeson, Russell Crowe, and former Scientologist Jason Beghe. Beghe previously went public with his own criticism after leaving the Church of Scientology, and described how members must pay large amounts of money to advance in Scientology levels."}
{"id": "142356", "revid": "104717", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142356", "title": "Zimbabawean police raid MDC party's offices", "text": ""}
{"id": "142360", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142360", "title": "Nokia files lawsuit against Apple", "text": "Mobile phone and computer manufacturer Nokia is filing a lawsuit against Apple over s. The infringements include speech coding, wireless data, security and encryption technology Nokia claims is used in Apple .\nAccording to a Nokia press release, 40 other companies are paying royalties to them in return for the use of their patented technology. Therefore, Nokia wants Apple to also pay for its usage.\n\"The basic principle in the mobile industry is that those companies who contribute in technology development to establish standards create intellectual property, which others then need to compensate for,\" Ilkka Rahnasto, Nokia's Vice President of Legal &amp; Intellectual Property, said in the press release. \"Apple is also expected to follow this principle. By refusing to agree appropriate terms for Nokia's intellectual property, Apple is attempting to get a free ride on the back of Nokia's innovation.\"\nOne industry analyst told that that he believes Nokia is seeking 1\u20132% per device. Based on the number of iPhones sold since its 2007 release date, that figure would amount to approximately 400 million USD.\nBen Wood, research director at CCS Insight, said, \"It is almost inconceivable that someone can produce a mobile phone without using Nokia patented technologies,\" showing how widespread Nokia's mobile technology is.\nIn Apple's , Apple responded to Nokia claims. \"The complaint alleges that these patents are essential to one or more of the GSM, UMTS and 802.11 wireless communications standards, and that the Company [Apple] has the right to license these patents from plaintiff [Nokia] on fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms and conditions. Plaintiff seeks unspecified FRAND compensation and other relief. The Company's response to the complaint is not yet due. The Company intends to defend the case vigorously,\" said Apple.\nThe Nokia v. Apple lawsuit is set to take place in a Delaware District Court."}
{"id": "142368", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142368", "title": "Former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karad\u017ei\u0107 boycotts genocide trial", "text": "The genocide trial of former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karad\u017ei\u0107 began today at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague.\nKarad\u017ei\u0107 faces 11 charges, including genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity, which relate to the Bosnian War of the 1990s. He denies all of the charges.\nNow 64, Karad\u017ei\u0107 had been in hiding for 13 years before being taken to The Hague for trial, which opened 14 years after the events to which it refers, and is expected to last until 2012. Karad\u017ei\u0107 announced on Thursday that he did not intend to attend the opening day, and it began without his presence. As he plans to defend himself, the trial could not continue.\nKarad\u017ei\u0107 says he needs more time to prepare, and the trial has been adjourned until tomorrow to allow the judges to consider their options. If Karad\u017ei\u0107 fails to attend repeatedly, a defence lawyer may be assigned to him in order to allow the trial to continue in his absence.\nThe start date has been delayed twice, and a request by Karad\u017ei\u0107 for a further 10-month delay was rejected. He has also attempted to request that the charges be dropped on the grounds that former US mediator Richard Holbrooke offered him immunity in 1996 if he retired from public life. The court rejected this appeal."}
{"id": "142369", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142369", "title": "Radovan Karadzic genocide trial begins", "text": ""}
{"id": "142396", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142396", "title": "Radovan Karad\u017ei\u0107 boycotts genocide trial", "text": ""}
{"id": "142405", "revid": "26321", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142405", "title": "Nokia files suit against Apple", "text": ""}
{"id": "142407", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142407", "title": "Homophobic attack on trainee police officer in Liverpool", "text": "A trainee police officer from Merseyside Police is fighting for his life after what Merseyside Police describe as a homophobic attack on Sunday on Liverpool's Stanley street, an area which describes itself as the gay quarter.\nThe attack occurred as the openly homosexual James Parkes left a gay bar, Superstar Boudoir, with his partner and two other people. Mr. Parkes is in hospital with fractures to his skull, eye socket and cheek bone.\nThe attack was carried out by up to 13 youths at about 10pm on Sunday. Stanley street was still closed on Monday and undergoing forensic examination and investigation of CCTV footage. The attack comes a week before Liverpool holds the annual Homotopia festival.\nTwo 15 year olds and a 14 year old from the Kirkdale area of the city are being questioned in connection with the incident.\nDetective Chief Inspector Tim Keelan, said: \"I would appeal to anyone who may have information which could help us to catch those responsible for this despicable crime to come forward. Intensive inquires are taking place and we are currently examining CCTV footage from around the time of the incident to identify those responsible.\nWe are treating the assault as a homophobic hate crime and this incident shows there are still some people who have not learnt that crimes of this type are completely unacceptable. People who commit hate crimes can expect the full attention of the police and we will not rest until the offenders are brought to justice. The offenders will learn their lesson the hard way.\nWe have stepped up high visibility patrols in the area to reassure the public and we would urge the community to help us with our enquiries and find those responsible.\""}
{"id": "142440", "revid": "180829", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142440", "title": "England rail users highlight Teesside Airport 'ghost station'", "text": "Twenty six people took an organised outing by rail this weekend to a little used station in North East England, in an effort to highlight its poor rail service. The trip was organised by Alex Nelson, the stationmaster of the nearby independent Chester-le-Street railway station. He wanted to raise the profile of the little used Teesside Airport railway station, which serves Durham Tees Valley Airport (known as Teesside Airport until 2006).\nThe station, which is on the Tees Valley Line and served by Northern Rail, is one of the least used stations in the country, and is in the bottom five of national rankings of passenger visits. Figures for 2007\u20138 year showed that only 52 people used the station in that period, which only has one timetabled train calling in each direction, on Saturdays only. In the current timetable, a train calls at the airport station from the Darlington direction at 10.28am, while later a second train calls in the opposite direction, leaving at 1.41pm.\nBy organising a group of people to travel on this service at the weekend, Mr Nelson hoped to raise the officially recorded passenger numbers for the station, and to highlight the poor rail service to the region's airport. He also hoped to persuade rail authorities to move the station, which is little more than a halt, 500 metres closer to the airport terminal. The present station is, according to Mr Nelson, \"a good 15-minute walk from the airport terminal\" building.\nNelson said:\n\"They haven\u2019t closed the station because it is incredibly difficult to do so \u2013 you have to go through all manner of consultations and government acts, instead they run the minimal service which is no use to anybody. We say that if a station is going to be there it may as well be of some use to the public\"\nMr Nelson was originally hoping for 50 people to take the trip, organised as an outing from Chester-le-Street station to the airport station and back, changing en-route at Darlington railway station."}
{"id": "142489", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142489", "title": "Nine killed after bombings in southern Afghanistan", "text": "NATO has said that eight United States service members and an Afghan civilian working for the force were killed on Tuesday after bomb attacks in southern Afghanistan.\nThe international force added that several troops were also wounded. \"Additionally, several service members were wounded in these incidents and were transported to a regional medical facility for treatment,\" it said.\nNATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) said that seven of the killed troops and the Afghan civilian died in the country's southern regions. The eighth US soldier was killed in a separate bombing. The ISAF gave no details as to the exact locations of the incidents.\nThe deaths came just a day after eleven US troops and three US drug agents were killed in separate helicopter crashes in the country.\nThis brings the number of US troops killed in Afghanistan to 53 in October, making it the deadliest month in the year."}
{"id": "142509", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142509", "title": "Court in France convicts Scientology of organized fraud", "text": "Scientology was convicted of organized fraud in France, in a ruling issued on Tuesday by a court in Paris. According to French law the Scientology organization is regarded as a sect in the country, and not a religion. The organization is heavily monitored by the government of Germany, and has been prosecuted in multiple other countries as well.\nThe Scientology \"Celebrity Centre\" in France was fined 400,000 euros, and a Scientology bookstore received a fine of 200,000 euros. According to the verdict of the French court, the Scientology organization was found guilty of taking advantage of its followers, and of \"commercial harassment\" of potential new members.\nAlain Rosenberg, the head of Scientology in the country, received a fine of 30,000 euros in addition to a suspended prison term of two-years. There were six total defendants. Three other officials within the Scientology organization received convictions of organized fraud, in addition to suspended prison terms ranging from 10 months to two years in duration. The remaining two defendants in the case received fines of 1,000 and 2,000 euros. \n\"This is an important and historic decision because it is the first time that Scientology has been found guilty of involvement in organized fraud,\" said Olivier Morice, a lawyer for the civil parties to the case.\nMembers of Scientology have been convicted of fraud in past in France, in Lyon in 1997 and Marseille in 1999. Scientology claims 45,000 adherents in France out of 12 million worldwide.\nProsecutors in the case had asked the French court to fine the Scientology organization 2 million euros, and also to order its operations to cease in the country. The court did not rule for the organization to be dissolved in France, explaining that Scientology would have likely continued its operations \"outside any legal framework\".\nUnlike the United States, where Scientology is considered a religion and therefore has a tax-exempt status, there is no such recognition or status for the Church in France, where it is considered a sect. Furthermore, a recently passed French law forbids French courts of dissolving groups on the basis of fraud. \nIn response to the law, Georges Fenech, head of the Inter-ministerial Unit to Monitor and Fight Cults, speaking on the television channel France 24 said, \"It is very regrettable that the law quietly changed before the trial. The system has now been put in place by parliament and it is certain that in the future, if new offences are committed, a ban could eventually be pronounced.\"\nThe legal representative of the Church of Scientology in France, Eric Roux, said the church will appeal the verdict citing intense media and political pressure during the trial. However, he also praised the verdict saying, \"The court said that in France, Scientology should continue. And on that point they are very right. This is the fair part of the verdict. That would end any odd idea that the church should end in France. Scientology is recognized everywhere in the world and France must step up to international standards. That is good for the church.\""}
{"id": "142513", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142513", "title": "9 Killed in Southern Afghanistan Bombings", "text": ""}
{"id": "142516", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142516", "title": "NASA completes successful test flight of new Ares IX rocket", "text": "NASA completed the first successful space flight of the new Ares I-X rocket yesterday. After delaying the launch 24 hours because of poor weather, Ares lifted off at 11:30 (EDT) in the morning from Kennedy Space Center in Florida.\nThe 327-foot tall Ares I-X test vehicle produced 2.6 million pounds of thrust to accelerate the rocket to nearly 3 g's and Mach 4.76 \u2014 just shy of hypersonic speed. It capped its easterly flight at a sub-orbital altitude of 150,000 feet after the separation of its first stage, a four-segment solid rocket booster. After reaching an altitude of about 40 km, the first stage separates from the launch vehicle. The second stage was very brief, reaching around 46,000 metres, before an uncontrolled descent. The Orion capsule model should splash down approximately 230 nautical miles from the launch site. The first stage booster from the test descended for recovery using a parachute braking system.\n\"This is a huge step forward for NASA's exploration goals. Ares I-X provides NASA with an enormous amount of data that will be used to improve the design and safety of the next generation of American spaceflight vehicles \u2014 vehicles that could again take humans beyond low Earth orbit,\" said Doug Cooke, associate administrator for the Exploration Systems Mission Directorate at NASA Headquarters in Washington, D.C..\nThe Ares I is a new rocket developed under the Constellation program, part of the Vision for Space Exploration announced in 2004 by then-president George W. Bush. Derived from a booster used on the current United States Space Shuttle, it should help to lift the Orion spacecraft carrying people and supplies for the International Space Station (ISS). The rocket with Orion is also planned to lift the crew to Altair lunar landing module, which will be lifted into orbit using the Ares V heavy-lift rocket."}
{"id": "142518", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142518", "title": "Tunisian president re-elected for fifth term", "text": "Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, the president of Tunisia, was reelected for the fifth consecutive time on Monday, winning almost nine-tenths of the vote.\nAccording to the Tunisian Interior Ministry, Ben Ali obtained 89.28% of the ballot. Opposition candidate Mohamed Bouchiha finished a distant second, with 5.01% of votes, and third place finisher Ahmed Inoubli received 3.8%. 4.7 million people out of 5.29 million registered voters cast their ballots in the elections, officials said, and turnout was 89.45%.\nBen Ali, aged 73, has been in office for 22 years after taking power in a bloodless coup in 1987. Under the current constitution, this is the last time that he can be reelected, as the age limit for presidential candidates is 75 years.\nIn separate parliamentary elections held simultaneously, Ben Ali's Constitutional Democratic Rally party took 161 of the 214 seats in the Chamber of Deputies.The remaining seats are to be split up proportionally among the opposing parties.\nSome international human rights groups, however, have accused the president of repressing the opposition.\n\"What we witness is a cold, badly written, badly directed play that despises the intelligence of Tunisians and believes that these aspects can make legitimacy, or make a new political regime,\" said Rachid al-Ghannouchi, the leader of the banned Nahda party, told the Al Jazeera news agency.\nBen Ali, however, dismissed critics' accusations, saying shortly before polls opened that voting would be open and democratic. He accused the opposition of trying to spread lies."}
{"id": "142537", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142537", "title": "McDonald's restaurant to close all locations in Iceland", "text": "McDonald's, the international chain, will cease all operations in Iceland by the end of October. \nThe company blames the closure of the nation's three outlets on drastically increased costs of importing its food ingredients, which mainly came from Germany. McDonald's corporation says the current economic slump is to blame for rising costs, along with the \"unique operational complexity\" of keeping them open.\nThe restaurant, with its distinctive , began its Icelandic operations in 1993. Its outlets were operated by Lyst, a franchising company owned by Jon Gardar Ogmundsson. There are no plans to reopen any of the locations.\n\"[Stores have] never been this busy before... but at the same time profits have never been lower. It just makes no sense. For a kilo[gram] of onion[s], imported from Germany, I'm paying the equivalent of a bottle of good whisky,\" said one Gardar Ogmundsson, the owner of the firm Lyst, to the .\nLyst hopes to operate a new chain of restaurants, which will be supplied by domestic rather than imported food products.\nMcDonald's, which operates in 119 countries globally, previously closed its sole retail outlet in Barbados in 1996 after only six months in operation, and withdrew from an additional seven countries in 2000 \u2014 including Bolivia \u2014 to reduce costs."}
{"id": "142554", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142554", "title": "McDonald's closing all its Iceland restaurants", "text": ""}
{"id": "142557", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142557", "title": "Dozens killed after car bomb explodes in market in Peshawar, Pakistan", "text": "Pakistani officials have said that at least 100 people were killed and over 200 injured after a car bomb exploded in a marketplace in the city of Peshawar on Wednesday. The attack was the deadliest in the country in this year.\nInitially, large fires were reported to be burning around the marketplace, which was crowded with people. The flames spread easily because there were many stores in the area selling flammable fabrics. Police said the blast was heard throughout most of the city, and the explosion reportedly left a hole in the ground up to ten feet wide.\nThe Associated Press reported that many of the victims are women.\n\"There was a huge blast. There was smoke and dust everywhere. I saw people dying and screaming on the road,\" said an eyewitness, Mohammad Siddique, to the Agence France-Presse news agency.\nSeveral buildings collapsed as a result of the detonation, and rescue workers searched through the rubble looking for survivors beneath the debris.\nMuzamil Hussain, a member of local medical staff, described his experiences to the Associated Press: \"There were a lot of wounded people. We tried to help them but there were no ambulances so we took the victims on rickshaws and other vehicles. There were no police. The police and government didn't help us, the police even opened fire on us.\"\n\"Bodies are scattered and badly burned because of the fire caused by the explosion. The explosion took place in a very crowded market,\" Mohammed Naeem, a spokesman for a local ambulance service, said.\nSome people expressed anger that the bombings managed to be carried out in broad daylight in a crowded area. \"What kind of security alert is this? It was an explosives-packed car. Look at the mosque, it ceases to exist anymore. For God's sake, do something,\" said a local middle-aged shopkeeper, as quoted by the CNN news agency.\nA state of emergency at the Lady Reading Hospital in Peshawar, where many of the wounded people were hospitalised, was called soon after the explosion. Hospital officials appealed to the public and to other medical centres for blood donations.\nThe bomb attack happened just hours after , the United States Secretary of State, flew to the nation to discuss peace with Pakistan's military commanders and political figures. Clinton will be in for three days.\nClinton condemned the attack. \"These attacks on innocent people are cowardly. They are not courageous. If the people behind these attacks were so sure of their beliefs, let them join the political process,\" she said.\nThe bombing also comes just days after Pakistani military forces captured the town of Kotkai, the hometown of Taliban Chief , and one of his top officers, Qari Hussain."}
{"id": "142559", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142559", "title": "Car bomb explodes in market in Peshawar, Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "142561", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142561", "title": "Attack on UN guesthouse by Taliban in Afghanistan kills nine", "text": "Militants in Afghanistan have killed at least six foreign United Nations workers; three Afghans, and a US citizen, during an attack on an international guest-house in the capital Kabul on Wednesday.\nLocal officials said three gunmen wearing suicide vests, disguised as police, stormed the compound around dawn that morning. They battled security forces for two hours before they either detonated their explosives or were shot dead. At least two Afghan security guards and a civilian died in the assault.\nA Taliban spokesman later took credit for the attack, calling it a \"first step\" to disrupt the planned November 7 presidential run-off election. The group called for a boycott of the polls, and threatened violence against anyone who would vote.\nMilitants also fired rockets at a luxury hotel and the presidential palace in the capital on Wednesday, but without causing casualties.\nAdrian Edwards, a spokesman for the UN, confirmed that six staff for the UN were among the dead. \"This has clearly been a very serious incident for us. We've not had an incident like this in the past,\" he said.\nThe UN chief in Afghanistan condemned the attack and said it would not deter the organization from continuing its work. \"This attack will not, I repeat, will not deter the UN from continuing its work to [...] build a better future for the Afghan people,\" said Kai Eide.\nThe US embassy released a statement saying that attacking civilian workers will not lessen US support for the Afghan people and their election process.\nThe assault came a day after a series of bomb blasts in southern Afghanistan killed eight Americans, making October the deadliest month for US troops in the ongoing eight year war. "}
{"id": "142590", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142590", "title": "Mozambique holds presidential and parliamentary elections", "text": "Voters in Mozambique headed to the polls yesterday to elect a president, parliament, and provincial assemblies.\nOfficials report voting was largely orderly and peaceful. Lines at polling stations across the country began forming before dawn, as voters turned out early to elect their next government.\nPresident Armando Guebuza of the ruling Liberation Front of Mozambique \u2014 better known as FRELIMO \u2014 was one of the first to vote in Mozambique's capital, Maputo; he is running for a second five-year term. On national television he appealed to all Mozambicans to vote in a spirit of celebration and without violence. Guebuza is predicted to win in the polls.\nFRELIMO pledged to voters that it would curb poverty and corruption, and promised that it would promote growth and attract foreign investments.\nVeteran opposition leader Afonso Dhlakama of the Mozambican National Resistance (RENAMO) also voted early. During the campaign, he complained of many irregularities, saying he wanted the elections to be free and transparent.\nA third opposition party also formed for this election, the Democratic Movement of Mozambique. It is led by Daviz Simango; the 45 year-old mayor of Mozambique's second-largest city of Beira.\nA number of instances of violence were reported during the campaign and opposition parties complained some of their candidates were prevented from running on technicalities. However, most analysts say the elections were overall peaceful and orderly. \nPreliminary results are expected in a few days."}
{"id": "142598", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142598", "title": "Mozambique Holds National Elections", "text": ""}
{"id": "142603", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142603", "title": "Home demolitions in East Jerusalem continue", "text": "Despite international calls for an end to home demolitions in East Jerusalem, Israeli authorities tore down five Palestinian homes yesterday; claiming they were built illegally. These home demolitions come after repeated calls from the UN and international community to stop settler activity and home demolitions.\nThe five demolitions took place early morning. Israeli authorities said the homes lacked a permit and therefore were built illegally. Palestinians claim it is nearly impossible to obtain a permit for their homes from the Israeli authorities who rule the area. Palestinians tried to repel the Israeli authorities with rocks but were summarily dispersed and the demolitions went ahead as planned. \nThe UN reports that 1,500 demolition orders are currently pending in Israeli courts. At least 600 Palestinians have been displaced from their homes in East Jerusalem since the beginning of this year. \nSince annexing the city in 1967 Israeli authorities have authorized the demolition of thousands of Palestinian homes in an effort to create a majority Jewish population in Jerusalem. \"It has been Israeli policy to try to guarantee a Jewish majority and generate Jewish hegemony in Jerusalem since 1967,\" said Dr. Roby Nathanson, Director of Israel's Macro Center for Political Economics. \"Israel has annexed huge parts of Jerusalem, enlarged the boundaries of the municipality, taken lots of land in the eastern part of the city and built more than 50,000 housing units on this land exclusively for Jews.\" \nHowever, Palestinians still hope to make Jerusalem the capital of their future state. "}
{"id": "142608", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142608", "title": "Newcastle United's St. James' Park naming rights go up for sale", "text": "The naming rights for St James' Park, the home ground of English football club Newcastle United F.C., are to be put up for sale. The club stated that the club would be \"welcoming offers for the stadium naming rights next season\". The move was part of a new drive to \"maximise its commercial revenues\", after the announcement that owner Mike Ashley was not selling the club, which had been up for sale since May 2009.\nSt James' Park is the largest and oldest football stadium in North East England. Football had been played at St James' Park since 1880, with Newcastle United using it as their home ground since their inception, in 1892. Despite Newcastle being in the second tier of football, St James Park is the third largest club football stadium in England, behind Old Trafford and the Emirates Stadium.\nNaming rights is not unprecedented in English football, including the Premier League grounds the Britannia Stadium, DW Stadium, Emirates Stadium, KC Stadium and Reebok Stadium. Bookmakers Ladbrokes named sportswear company and current club sponsor Addidas favourites to secure the rights. In order to stop the move, BBC Radio Newcastle football commentator Mick Lowes suggested that the Newcastle United Supporters Trust's used part of its reported \u00a325m funds to pay Ashley not to sell the rights.\nEx-Newcastle striker and local sports pundit Malcolm Macdonald said of the decision:\nthey thought they had got on the wrong side of the people of Tyneside then just wait and see what happens if they go through with their plans to re-name St James\u2019 Park because there will be an almighty uproar and outcry. It would upset people so much because it everyone\u2019s second home. That is how people feel about it. It has been St James\u2019 Park forever and a day and it should remain that way.\nLee Ryder, the Evening Chronicle's chief sportswrite blogged:\nWe need to make Coors Light Park a fortress\" - to even imagine a future Toon player uttering such words will make many physically sick...Renaming St James's Park is simply bad taste in the eyes of most Geordie fans - and many will feel that even the injection of silly money to do it will do nothing to make up for another piece of heritage being ripped away from the Tyneside streets...Renaming St James's Park to Coors Light Park, Bwin Park or even the McDonalds Arena shows that Newcastle's top brass have again got it so seriously wrong\nGeorge Caulkin of The Times wrote of the decision:\nRenaming St James\u2019 Park is a muddle-headed, flawed and divisive notion which must not and cannot stand. In an era of recession, there may be a need for Newcastle, in their own words, to \u201cmaximise their commercial revenues,\u201d but if it comes at the expense of goodwill (what little there is left of it), hope and a sense of community, it would also come at a bitter, prohibitive, self-defeating cost. \nThere has been debate over the correct spelling and pronunciation of the stadium name, with differing accounts based on its meaning and origin. In 2008, the club insisted to the BBC programme Look North that the the correct spelling of the Stadium is St James' Park, with no following 's' after James', because the stadium is not named as \"the park of St James\", rather, it is named after the nearby St James Street, which predates the ground.\nThe announcement came on the same day as it announced Chris Hughton as the club's permanent manager, and that owner Mike Ashley was taking the club off the market for a second time."}
{"id": "142610", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142610", "title": "Chris Hughton appointed permanent manager of Newcastle United", "text": "Chris Hughton has been appointed permanent manager of English football club Newcastle United, having previously served as its temporary caretaker manager since the start of the season. His permanent contract was to run until the end of the 2010\u201311 season.\nThe 50 year old former Tottenham Hotspur and Republic of Ireland defender joined the club in 2008 when he was appointed Newcastle United assistant manager by Kevin Keegan, with the club at the time in the top flight of English football, the Premier League. Hughton then became temporary Newcastle United caretaker manager twice last season, as managers came and went, and at the end of the season, the club were ultimately relegated to the second tier, the Football League Championship. In his third spell as caretaker, he had been in charge of the club since the start of the season, and had guided the team to the top of the table, and for his efforts was awarded the Football League Championship Manager of the Month twice, for August and September.\nHughton stated of his appointment:\n\"It's a very proud day for me to be named as the manager of this magnificent football club. I will be doing everything in my power to get the club back into the Premier League at the first time of asking. Having the unequivocal backing of the players has helped me enormously and I would also like to thank Colin Calderwood, Paul Barron and the rest of the backroom staff who have been tremendously supportive to me this season.\"\nAccording to Sky Sports, many Newcastle fans had 'made no secret of their desire' to see a return to the club as manager of Alan Shearer after relegation and over the summer break. Shearer, the former club captain, was hired on a short term 8 game contract at the end of last season, but could not steer the club away from relegation. As the new season progressed, Hughton remained caretaker, and ten days prior to Hughton's appointment, Shearer had said:\n\"I can't revolve my life around that any more because I have other things going on. If it happens, it happens, and if it doesn't, it doesn't...And at the moment Chris Hughton is doing a great job.\"\nThe announcement came on the same day as it announced that the club would be putting the naming rights of the club stadium St James' Park up for offers next season, and that owner Mike Ashley was taking the club off the market for a second time."}
{"id": "142611", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142611", "title": "Mike Ashley takes Newcastle United off the market for a second time", "text": "Mike Ashley, the owner of English football club Newcastle United F.C., has taken the club off the market for a second time, after failing to concluded several negotiations, including a cash offer of \u00a380 million, according to the club.\nA club statement said of the move:\n\"Mike Ashley is totally committed to the future success of Newcastle United and will be focused on gaining promotion back to the Premier League. Mike will put a further \u00a320m into the club this week.\" \nThis is the second time Ashley has taken the club off the market after putting it up for sale. This season, Newcastle are competing in the Football League Championship, the second tier of English football, after relegation from the top flight Premier League at the end of last season. Ashley had bought the Premier League club in May 2007 for \u00a3134.4m, but after a difficult period of ownership, which saw the return and departure of manager Kevin Keegan after a few months, and after fan protests, Ashley eventually put the club up for sale for the first time in September 2008. In a statement at the time he said:\nI am not stupid and have listened to the fans. I have really loved taking my kids to the games, being next to them and all the fans. But I am now a dad who can't take his kids to a football game on a Saturday because I am advised that we would be assaulted. Therefore, I am no longer prepared to subsidise Newcastle United. I am putting the club up for sale. I hope that the fans get what they want and that the next owner is someone who can lavish the amount of money on the club that the fans want. \nAfter failing to find a suitable buyer, Ashley took the club off the market in December 2008, stating he is \"committing to the club as its owner\". After a poor season, culminating in relegation from the Premier League to the Football Championship for the first time in 16 years, Ashley put the club up for sale a second time after relegation in May 2009. Ashley stated of the situation \"It's been catastrophic for everybody. I've lost my money and made terrible decisions\".\nThe announcement came on the same day as it announced Chris Hughton as the club's permanent manager, and that the club would be putting the naming rights of the club stadium St James' Park up for offers next season."}
{"id": "142614", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142614", "title": "Ares IX launch postponed to Wednesday", "text": ""}
{"id": "142643", "revid": "94752", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142643", "title": "Newcaslte United's St. James' Park naming rights go up for sale", "text": ""}
{"id": "142648", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142648", "title": "Home Demolitions in East Jerusalem Continue", "text": ""}
{"id": "142683", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142683", "title": "Canadian folk singer attacked and killed by coyotes in Nova Scotia", "text": "Taylor Mitchell, a Canadian folk singer, was attacked by two coyotes while hiking alone in Cape Breton Highlands National Park in Nova Scotia on Wednesday, officials said.\nAnother hiker nearby heard screams and contacted park rangers, where they found two coyotes attacking Mitchell. Rangers shot and injured one of the animals as it tried to flee.\nMitchell, aged 19, was airlifted to a Halifax hospital in critical condition. That evening, police found what they suspected to be the other coyote, and shot and killed it.\nMitchell died the following morning from bite wounds covering her entire body. The animals were described as \"extremely aggressive\" by park authorities. The dead coyote was tested to determine what caused the two to attack, as coyote attacks are very rare."}
{"id": "142689", "revid": "70202", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142689", "title": "Wikinews interviews Zahra Stardust about the upcoming by-election in the Bradfield electorate of the Australian parliament", "text": "With two by-elections coming up in Australia, many minor parties and independents will be looking to gain a seat in the House of Representatives. Zahra Stardust (real name Marianna Leishman) is the candidate for the Australian Sex Party.\nWikinews reporter held an exclusive interview with Ms Stardust, candidate for the Bradfield electorate.\n\u201cIn an area that claims 50 years of conservative representation from white, heterosexual, able-bodied, suited, male protagonists, the Australian Sex Party is excited to a provide modern outward looking female candidate with social justice credentials to restore a historical imbalance in the electorate\u2019s policy focus\u201d, the 26 year old human rights advocate, burlesque dancer and trapeze artist said in a press release.\nThe electorate was vacated by former opposition leader Brenden Nelson.\nInterview.\nWhy do you want to get into parliament? / Why do you represent your party?\nI am delighted and thrilled I am to be representing the Australian Sex Party, whose policies on sex, gender, human rights and equality are very close to my heart. We believe that the personal is political, and we\u2019re serious about sex and the way that it directly affects individuals in areas of health, censorship, discrimination, workplace, education and equality.\nRarely do we hear politicians speaking in positive or open-minded terms about issues relating to sex, sexuality and gender. Much rhetoric in Australian politics in fact uses particularly moralising or religious discourses that are governed by heteronormative, patriarchal and hegemonic ideals. Indeed, our party needed an electoral commission ruling that it s' name was not \u2018obscene\u2019. In this climate, we aim to disrupt, expose and eliminate the plethora of taboos and stigmas, shame and isolation around sex, sexuality, and gender, to advocate for wider equality and freedom from harm for all Australians.\nWhat would the three main policies you are taking into this by-election be? / How would you address these policies? \nWe\u2019re proud to announce that the Australian Sex Party has policies in a diverse number of areas. We are concerned about child protection and education- we would like to convene a Royal Commission into child sex abuse in religious institutions, and assist develop global approaches to child pornography, whilst importantly, establishing a national sex education curriculum for children, an internet education scheme for parents, a uniform classification scheme for non-violent erotica, introducing R and X ratings for computer games, and return Internet censorship to parents and individuals.\nOne of our fundamental concerns is equality \u2013 including paid maternity leave, ensuring equal numbers of women in Parliament, legalisation of abortion, enacting more comprehensive federal anti-discrimination laws in line with the Australian Human Rights Commission recommendations, creating total equal rights in all areas of the law for gay, lesbian and transgender people, overturning discriminatory laws in the Northern Territory banning Indigenous people from possessing erotic media, and ensuring the sexual rights of the elderly and people with a disability. \nSending asylum seekers to Indonesia: good or bad? / Is the Australian dollar's near parrity with the UD dollar a sign that the Australian economy is healthy, the US economy in chaos or both? / How do you rate the governments economic stimulus package? / Should it be wound back? / Is Kevin Rudd a better Prime Minister than John Howard? / Is the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme an effective solution to climate change? Why? / Is there a better solution?\nAs a party in its infancy who is not yet in the House of Representatives, we are focusing predominantly on niche issues relating to sex and gender, in which we have expertise. We look forward to formulating policies on wider issues in the public discourse such climate change, the economy and refugee issues if and when the occasion arises. Currently we are seeking to raise awareness of important topics that are remain hidden or absent from the public political agenda.\nHowever, we would make the following comments in response to your questions. For a country that prides itself on multiculturalism, we believe that instead of utilizing law and order rhetoric that stigmatises people who have every right under international law to seek asylum, we should see this instance as an opportunity to welcome the incredible cultural diversity asylum seekers can bring to our country, and to open up discussion about the root causes of refugee and immigration movements, such as climate change, civil war, famine and persecution. Despite being elected largely because of their compassion and empathy towards refugees and asylum seekers, Rudd's 'hard line' approach is reminiscent of John Howard's stance in this area and risks creating a disillusioned public. We urge the Rudd Government to call on Indonesia to sign and ratify the Refugee Convention if it continues to fund detention centres there, and press for asylum seekers to be processed on the mainland with view to Australia being a progressive role model in the international community, as opposed to maintaining its current detention policies which continue to seek attention from human rights bodies worldwide.\nWhy should the electorate vote for you?\nThere is a lot of lip service paid currently paid by the major political parties to gender equality that is not followed through with substantive policy and law reform. We know that the vast numbers of Australians are tolerant, respectful, celebratory people, with their individual backgrounds, preferences and lives, and we hope to seek resonance with people in Bradfield electorate who care about social justice issues and injustices in areas of health, education, censorship, workplace relations and child protection. We hope to represent people in Bradfield who support the human rights, respect, dignity and equality of all people, no matter what gender, sexual preference, race, class, ability, or any other factor. \nI have experience working with the United Nations Population Fund in Eritrea on sexual and reproductive health programs, with UNIFEM Australia on gender, development and discrimination, and with the Kimberley Land Council in the area of Native Title. I have worked at Wirringa Baiya Aboriginal Women\u2019s Legal Centre with victims of sexual assault and domestic violence and campaigned with Amnesty International, Mahboba\u2019s Promise and Oxfam Australia. I am a proud member of the Gay/Lesbian/Bi-sexual/ TIQ community and believe in equal rights for all members of the community.\nWe urge people to look at our website, which is absolutely overflowing with fabulous information, news articles, media releases, and videos from around the globe. We look forward to meeting with, hearing from and working with members of the Bradfield electorate about their experiences, desires and priorities in these areas and how we can best help make real political and social change, and provide nuanced representation for a beautifully diverse electorate. "}
{"id": "142693", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142693", "title": "Iraqi officials arrest over 60 in connection with recent bombings", "text": "The Iraqi military has said that it arrested more than 60 security force members in connection with the recent series of bombings in Baghdad that killed about 155 people.\nA military spokesman said on Thursday the arrests included eleven military officers. He did not say whether the army suspected the detained officers of involvement in the blasts or of negligence in protecting the Iraqi capital. \nSunday's car bombings targeted Iraq's justice ministry and a provincial government building. An al-Qaeda-linked group claimed responsibility for the attacks. Hundreds of people were hurt and several government buildings were badly damaged after the attacks, which were the deadliest to strike the country since 2007."}
{"id": "142700", "revid": "18761", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142700", "title": "US president Obama honors soldiers killed in Afghanistan", "text": "US president Barack Obama visited the Dover Air Force Base in Delaware on Thursday, 161\u00a0km (100\u00a0mi) away from White House, to honor 18 soldiers who died in Afghanistan due to varying reasons. The bodies of the dead were brought by C-17 air craft.\nObama left the White House around 00:19 local time (-7 UTC) by helicopter and reached the base where the C-17 air plane brought the bodies of the dead. Obama stood silent and motionless near the air plane while the bodies were brought down and were wrapped with the American flag.\nTen of those soldiers, including three drug enforcement agents, died when their plane crashed in Western Afghanistan, and four others when their plane crashed in Southern Afghanistan. The other eight soldiers were killed in roadside bomb attacks in the Kandahar province.\nObama himself met their families and then returned back to White House at around 04:45. The whole ceremony was unannounced and unexpected."}
{"id": "142703", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142703", "title": "US president Barrack Obama honors eighteen soldiers who died in Afghanistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "142723", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142723", "title": "US president Barack Obama honors eighteen soldiers who died in Afghanistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "142725", "revid": "7186", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142725", "title": "Strong earthquake hits northern Pakistan", "text": "An earthquake measuring 6.0 on the hit Pakistan on Thursday at 23.44 local time (+18.44 ). The epicentre was in the Hindukush mountain range. The earthquake was mainly felt in Islamabad, Rawalpindi, Muzaffarabad, Lahore, and .\nThe quake lasted approximately for twenty seconds. Many people rushed out of buildings, fearing that they would collapse, but no damage from the tremors was reported.\nAs the epicentre of the quake was deep in the mountains, along the border with Afghanistan, not much damage was caused. This is the second time that the region was hit by earthquake with an epicenter in the same region of Hindukush.\nLast week, a 6.2 magnitude earthquake struck near the Afghanistan-Pakistani border."}
{"id": "142736", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142736", "title": "State of emergency declared in New York over H1N1 swine flu virus", "text": "According to US health officials, New York state governor David Paterson has declared a state of emergency in the state as a result of the H1N1 swine flu outbreak.\nThe Associated Press news agency reports that the six-page declaration was issued because at least 75 people have died of H1N1 related illnesses in New York since April. Three have died from H1N1 related illnesses just this past week. The declaration also says that human cases of the virus are on the rise.\nPaterson says he issued the declaration because \"a disaster has occurred throughout New York State, for which the affected local governments are unable to respond adequately.\"\nThe declaration will allow health officials more access to the H1N1 vaccine and the seasonal flu shot. It will also allow for an increase in the number of vaccine doses available in the state and will allow more health care facilities to administer the vaccine, including dentists and pharmacists. Schools with health centers will also be allowed to administer both vaccines.\nDespite the declaration, officials stressed that there is no reason to worry. A spokeswoman for the New York State Department of Health, Claire Pospisil, said that \"it [the declaration] helps us to be more prepared.\"\nThe order came shortly after US president Barack Obama declared a national emergency last Saturday, a response to the spreading of the virus, which has now been circulated in 46 states."}
{"id": "142737", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142737", "title": "State of emergency declared in New York over H1N1", "text": ""}
{"id": "142744", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142744", "title": "UN Security Council votes to extend Ivory Coast sanctions", "text": "The United Nations voted unanimously on Thursday to extend the arms embargo on the Ivory Coast (otherwise known as C\u00f4te d'Ivoire) for a year.\nIn addition, the 15-member council renewed a ban on exporting diamonds and foreign travel, as well as an asset freeze for persons who are discovered to have violated human rights or disrupting the peace. \"[...] the situation in the Ivory Coast continues to pose a threat to international peace and security in the region,\" the council said.\nThe largest producer of cocoa in the world, Ivory Coast has been in turmoil ever since rebels attempted to overthrow president Laurent Gbagbo in 2002, which soon escalated into a civil war. The UN implemented an arms embargo against the country in 2004, after a ceasefire between rebels and government forces was violated.\nThe Security Council said that the sanctions would remain in place until October 31 of next year, but that it would review its measures three months after presidential elections are held. Elections in Ivory Coast are scheduled for November 29; however, authorities said that it is unlikely that the polls will be held at that date, citing preparation delays.\nIlahiri Djedje, the Ivory Coast's ambassador to the UN, expressed his disappointment at the council's decision. \"[We] had expected to today obtain a clear commitment by the Security Council in favor of a lifting of sanctions following the presidential elections,\" he said. \"There is no reason why individual sanctions should be maintained. The resolution adopted today is not tailored to assist Ivorians in their process of reconciliation.\""}
{"id": "142759", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142759", "title": "Two 10-year-old UK boys arrested for alleged rape of girl aged 8", "text": " Two ten-year-old boys have been arrested after the alleged rape of an eight-year-old girl in London, England. The family of the unidentified eight-year-old girl called the police after she had come home telling her mother about the incident which she said had occurred in a park in the town of Hayes in the London Borough of Hillingdon, at around 1400 GMT on Tuesday.\nThe boys, whom the girl purportedly did not know, live near to her and were arrested on suspicion of rape, being over the age limit for criminal responsibility. A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police said that the two boys had been arrested and questioned. They were later released on police bail until middle November 2009. The crime case is currently being investigated by \"Project Sapphire\", which is a specialist rape unit set up in Scotland Yard.\nOne neighbour, who asked to remain unknown, stated, \"The little girl was playing on her own when the two boys came up to her and enticed her to where they keep the bins between the flats. There haven\u2019t been many children around here all week and now the children are being kept inside by their parents because of what has happened. It is very quiet. On Tuesday lunchtime I looked out of my window when I heard a noise and saw about 30 police officers running around to seal off the park but forensics officers only got here today.\"\n38-year-old mother Daniella Gordon also commented on the situation. \"My three-year-old goes to the nursery by the college, the police haven\u2019t told me or other mothers what has happened which I think is wrong. It makes you think of the James Bulger case and there are lots of kids around here, that\u2019s what disturbs me.\""}
{"id": "142764", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142764", "title": "Two 10-year-old boys arrested for alleged rape of girl aged 8", "text": ""}
{"id": "142771", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142771", "title": "English actor Norman Painting dies at age 85", "text": "English actor and scriptwriter Norman Painting has died at the age of 85 in Warmington in the county of Warwickshire in England. He had been fighting a battle with bladder cancer since 2000.\nPainting was most famous for playing the voice of the character Phil Archer in BBC Radio 4 drama \"The Archers\" since the programme piloted on 29 May 1950, making him involved in the series for 59 years. According to the Guinness Book of Records, Norman is recognised as the \"longest-serving character in a single soap-opera\". He has also written over 1000 scripts for the programme between 1966 and 1982. Despite the long period of time on the show, he was having a reduced number of appearances in later years due to his declining health. In 2000, he made the announcement that he was suffering from bladder cancer, but said at the time: \"I see no reason why this illness should prevent me from continuing doing what I love.\"\nHis last day in the recording studio was on October 20, which was a Tuesday. Mark Thompson, who is the BBC general director, spoke of how he was \"deeply saddened\" by this happening: \"He rightly became renowned for his portrayal of Phil Archer, a role he created in the pilot episode in 1950, but he was also a gifted writer and talented, versatile broadcaster. He was a pillar of The Archers family, but to millions of listeners he became a friend and latterly a wonderful father figure. His death leaves us with a great sense of loss but an even deeper feeling of gratitude for such a huge contribution to the BBC and its audiences over six decades,\" said Thompson. \nPainting was appointed OBE in 1976 and also has a star on the Birmingham Walk of Stars. Mark Damazer, who is the current BBC Radio 4 controller, also expressed his gratitude to the actor. \"Norman Painting was for almost 60 years a central figure in one of Radio 4's hallmark programmes,\" he said. \"As Phil Archer, he became a wonderful patriarch yet he had started decades earlier as a young romantic hero. He will be deeply missed by the rest of The Archers team and his millions of fans.\"\nThe last episode in which he is featured will be broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on November 22, 2009. An extract of the episode can be found on the BBC News website."}
{"id": "142774", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142774", "title": "Taliban Attack UN Guesthouse in Kabul, Killing 9", "text": ""}
{"id": "142775", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142775", "title": "A strong Earquake hits Northern Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "142801", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142801", "title": "Nine missing after US Coast Guard plane and Navy helicopter collide", "text": "A search and rescue mission is underway off the coast of California for nine people missing after a US Coast Guard plane collided in midair with a Navy helicopter. The plane, a C-130 Hercules transport, was carrying seven and two were on the AH-1 SuperCobra assault helicopter.\nSearchers from the Navy and Coast Guard have found floating debris from the aircraft. The collision occurred roughly 15 miles from San Clemente Island, and a pilot in the area witnessed a fireball. Some debris is confirmed as coming from a C-130. The plane and crew were based at Coast Guard Air Station Sacramento and the helicopter and crew were from the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing presence at Camp Pendleton.\nAccording to Petty Officer Henry Dunphy, the airplane was equipped with survival gear. \"We're hoping to find survivors. We're not ruling that out,\" he said.\nThe rescue operation is being conducted by both air and sea. Lieutenant Josh Nelson of the Coast Guard said that \"we are throwing everything we can at this right now,\" adding that the crews were trained in survival techniques.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "142805", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142805", "title": "Typhoon Mirinae heads towards the Philippines", "text": "The Philippines is bracing for yet another storm as Typhoon Mirinae heads towards the area. The country is still reeling from catastrophic flooding as a result of a number of other cyclones, including and . So far, over 1,100 have been killed during the Philippines' typhoon season. \nA Category 2 storm, Mirinae is packing 1-minute sustained winds of 100 mph (160 km/h), or 90 mph (150 km/h) 10-minute, and is forecast to strike the eastern portion of before moving westward, potentially over the city of . \nTorrential rainfall, in addition to destructive winds, are expected to impact the region starting late Friday. As a result, numerous landslides are likely. \n\"Considering our land is already saturated with water, it may cause flooding in some areas. It is hard to tell if there will be floods but we are preparing for the worst,\" said a civil defence office spokesman. \nResidents have been advised to take precautionary measures. Evacuations have also been declared in some areas, and ferries have been canceled. \nThe storm might re-intensify once it moves over open waters of the South China Sea. "}
{"id": "142817", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142817", "title": "Former French president Jacques Chirac to stand trial on embezzlement charges", "text": "A French magistrate has ordered former President Jacques Chirac to stand trial on embezzlement charges dating back to the 1990s, when he was mayor of Paris. The order is unprecedented, and follows several other trials targeting former high-level politicians.\nChirac did not respond directly to news he has been ordered to stand trial, but a statement from his office said he was serene and determined to clear himself.\nThe former president is charged with embezzlement and breach of trust relating to allegations that 35 people were given fake jobs at Paris city hall between 1994 and 1995, when he was mayor. A veteran politician, 76-year-old Chirac served as both Paris mayor and prime minister of France, before becoming president in 1995. He left office in 2007.\nAlthough he has been dogged by several scandals, he has so far avoided prosecution. \nReactions to the news were swift, with some opposition politicians praising the justice system for having done its work. But a number of Chirac supporters sharply criticized the move, including one former advisor, Jean-Francois Probst.\nIn an interview on French radio, Probst suggested the judge's order was part of a larger attack on the conservative circle surrounding Chirac. Two of Chirac's former prime ministers, Alain Juppe and Dominique de Villepin, have both stood trial on separate charges, while ex-interior minister Charles Pasqua was sentenced to prison in a third trial that ended this week.\nInternational relations professor Steven Ekovich, of the American University of Paris, however, expressed doubts as to whether Chirac will ever face trial. \"It's a little surprising, but I doubt it's going to go very far, mostly because of his age,\" he said. \"Maybe mostly because of his age. And I can't imagine that President [Nicolas] Sarkozy will let it go very far. I think this is just part of the justice system following procedures.\"\nWhile Chirac left the presidency with low approval ratings, his popularity has since soared. In a poll earlier this year, he was rated France's most popular politician. "}
{"id": "142823", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142823", "title": "Canadian folk singer attacked and killed by coyotes", "text": ""}
{"id": "142833", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142833", "title": "Jacques Chirac to Stand Trial on Embezzlement Charges", "text": ""}
{"id": "142837", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142837", "title": "Ukraine closes schools after reports of swine flu deaths", "text": "Ukraine reported its first deaths from the H1N1 swine flu virus on Friday, prompting the government to close schools, ban public gatherings throughout the country, and take other actions in an effort to curb the spread of the disease. \nFour people were confirmed dead from the disease as of Friday, and another seven people have been confirmed as infected with it, the ProUA news agency quoted National Security and Defense Council Secretary Raisa Bohatyryova as saying. This contradicts other reports, which said only one person died.\n30 more people in the western part of the country have died from an outbreak of pneumonia and flu since the middle of this month, but it has not been confirmed to be the swine flu.\nUkrainian prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko ordered the closure of schools and cinemas for three weeks. A ban on public gatherings was implemented as well, in some of the toughest measures taken in Europe to stop the virus' spread. \"Special regimes\" will also be introduced, to limit residents from moving from one part of the country to the other for non-urgent purposes.\n\"All educational institutions without exception [...] will be put on a three-week holiday period,\" Tymoshenko said. \"Apart from this, we will cancel all mass meetings [...] for three weeks. We will introduce a special system to stop unnecessary travel from one region to another.\"\n\"We can say today that Ukraine has entered into the zone of the swine flu epidemic,\" said Ukrainian Health Minister Vassyl Kniazevich."}
{"id": "142842", "revid": "126901", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142842", "title": "Vigil for hate victims takes place in London", "text": "A silent vigil for the Victims of hate crime is taking place in Trafalgar Square, London this evening.\nThe vigil follows recent homophobic attacks including those on Ian Baynham and James Parkes. London Mayor Boris Johnson, in speaking of tonight's vigil said, \"Londoners have become increasingly concerned about the number of homophobic attacks and the recent death of Ian Baynham was particularly appalling. My thoughts are with his friends, family and everyone affected by hate crime.\"\nThe vigil also comes following the publication of crime statistics showing that the level of \nhomophobic attacks in the UK had risen. Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson acknowledged the concerns of many citizens regarding the increase in homophobic attacks. \"My sincere condolences to Ian Baynham's family and friends. This was a dreadful crime and we are, and will continue to do everything we can to ensure those responsible are brought to justice.\"\nMark Healy, one of the organisers of the vigil, was quoted by BBC News as saying\n\"If we forget about these victims we could become complacent and fail to learn from the past.\" adding that \n\"Whenever someone is attacked, pain and suffering is not just caused to them, but also to their family and the wider community.\nWe hope the vigil will also inspire young people to tackle issues of equality in the community.\"\nThe vigil is being organised by Facebook group 17-24-30, who take their name from the London nail bomb attacks on Brixton, Brick Lane and Soho in 1999. Confirmed attendees include London Deputy Mayor Richard Barnes and comedienne Sandi Toksvig. A letter from Stuart Milk, nephew of the late Harvey Milk, the first openly gay politician elected in California, will be read out. The Gay Men's Chorus will also be performing."}
{"id": "142855", "revid": "5762", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142855", "title": "Vigil for hate victims to take place in London", "text": ""}
{"id": "142986", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142986", "title": "Man jailed for manslaughter of wife in Hampshire, England", "text": "A man has been given a prison sentence of nine years for the manslaughter of his wife in Hampshire, England. 40-year-old Sally Sinclair was head of business analysis for mobile phone provider Vodafone and had been killed in August 2008 in her home in the village of Amport, after admitting to her husband that she had had an affair. When her body was found in the kitchen of the house, it was discovered that she had suffered a partially severed head and at least 40 stab wounds. Winchester Crown Court had heard during the trial that the attack was partly witnessed by children. \nAlisdair Sinclair, who is 48 years old and caused the attack, was cleared of charges of murder, but was sentenced to nine years in prison for charges of manslaughter. Judge Guy Boney QC has been quoted as saying: \"Your wife did everything she could to support and help you and indulge your eccentricities, including spending \u00a3100,000 (US$164,470) on three cars of the same model you hardly ever used.\n\"She wanted to make the marriage work and save it from collapse. These efforts cost her her life. Sally Sinclair appears to have coped with, and tolerated, your behaviour over a long period. When she could not take any more of your behaviour you exploded in a frenzy of brutality in reaction to certain information you forced out of her.\"\nSpeaking about the case, Detective Sergeant Sarah Simpson from Hampshire Constabulary said outside of the courtroom: \"A successful career woman had her life tragically and prematurely cut short and her family now have to lead their lives without her. Nothing can ever compensate for that.\""}
{"id": "142997", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=142997", "title": "Islamic Republic of Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "143002", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143002", "title": "NWFP", "text": ""}
{"id": "143005", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143005", "title": "Bomb blast kills seven in northwest Pakistan", "text": "Officials in Pakistan have said that a bomb blast killed seven Pakistani soldiers and wounded eleven others on Saturday in the northwestern part of the country. The incident took place in the Khyber region, which is the main route for moving supplies to international forces fighting in neighbouring Afghanistan.\nThe explosion struck a vehicle that was transporting paramilitary troops on a patrol near the region's main town of Landikotal, according to a spokesman for the Frontier Corps. \"The vehicle was completely destroyed and seven of our soldiers were killed,\" the spokesman said.\nPakistani armed forces started an operation against militants in the Khyber region in September, saying that the rebels had started to expand their activities. The mountainous area along the Afghanistan border is said to be haven for both al-Qaeda and Taliban insurgents.\nThe violence comes a day after US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton ended her visit to the country."}
{"id": "143010", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143010", "title": "Indian Air Force chopper crashes in Jammu and Kashmir", "text": "An Indian Air Force (IAF) MI-17 helicopter crashed into the Chenab river in the Doda district on Friday, after it got caught into a cable fire of a bridge. The occupants of the chopper are not yet known.\nThe chopper was returning from the Nawapachi of Kishtawar district after supplying ammunition, food and arms for the troops there. The IAF regularly carries such duties to the area.\nThe chopper was hovering low over the water body when it got caught in a cable fire and crashed into the Baglihar hydro-electric power project at Tringel. The chopper went deep into the water, and the exact number of people on board is not known, although police officers said that at least one of them died.\nThere were two helicopters, as said by a police officer, and the second one was still hovering over the area when the first one crashed. Rescue teams were soon dispatched, and Pakistani troops are also on the way to assist with rescue efforts."}
{"id": "143018", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143018", "title": "IAF chopper crashes in Jammu and Kashmir", "text": ""}
{"id": "143024", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143024", "title": "Afghan presidential candidate Abdullah may boycott runoff election", "text": "Sources close to Afghanistan presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah said that he may pull out of next week's runoff election against President Hamid Karzai, due to concerns about the credibility of the poll. \nAbdullah had given Karzai until Saturday to remove the country's Independent Election Commission (IEC) chief, Azizullah Lodin.\nIt was one of several conditions that Abdullah had voiced this week to avoid a repeat of the massive fraud that marred the August 20 presidential election. As of Saturday, Karzai had not agreed to his opponent's requests.\nAbdullah is expected to hold a press conference on Sunday about the planned vote, scheduled for November 7. News reports cited sources close to the former foreign minister as saying that Abdullah may pull out of the runoff.\nA spokesman for the Afghan election commission, Noor Mohammad Noor, however, said that legally, Abdullah cannot officially withdraw a week away from the vote. \"Now is too late, according to IEC procedure of the election law, the withdraw time is already done, so they must continue,\" he said to the Voice of America news agency.\nSpeaking from Kabul, the director of Afghanistan's Center for Research and Policy Studies, Haroun Mir, said a boycott would have a major impact on the public's perception of the country's government. \"If Dr. Abdullah boycotts and we have a very low voter turnout, then President Karzai will be declared winner, but he will not be considered a legitimate president,\" said Mir.\nMir said that he believes Karzai would have a hard time asserting his authority in Afghanistan's northern areas, which are the base for Abdullah's support.\nAfghan election officials say they plan to increase the number of voting stations for the runoff, despite concerns that it could lead to more fraud than in the first vote.\nThe Taliban also promised to intensify its attacks leading up to the November 7 election. Several days ago, insurgents launched an attack on a Kabul guest house that killed five United Nations staff members."}
{"id": "143028", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143028", "title": "Bomb Blast Kills 7 in Northwest Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "143030", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143030", "title": "Iraq Makes Arrests Over Deadly Blasts", "text": ""}
{"id": "143033", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143033", "title": "Afghanistan announces arrests in UN guesthouse attack", "text": "Afghanistan authorities said on Saturday that they have arrested at least six people believed to have been involved in Wednesday's deadly attack on a United Nations guesthouse in Kabul. Afghan intelligence chief Amrullah Saleh announced the arrests on Saturday.\nThe assault, lead by militants linked to the Taliban and Al-Qaeda, killed five foreign UN employees and at least two Afghan guards. The three attackers also were killed. The Taliban said the attack was the first step in a plan to disrupt Afghanistan's November 7 presidential runoff election.\nMilitants stormed the UN residence around dawn wearing . UN security officers battled them for at least an hour before NATO troops and Afghan police showed up.\nUN officials have called for a strengthening of security measures after the incident."}
{"id": "143040", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143040", "title": "Erosion influences Nigerian climate policy", "text": "Erosion in Nigeria has lead to increasing concern on climate policy for the entire country.\nAreas in Nigeria have been subject to damages caused by increasing erosion for over 50 years. This issue has grown over the past years, and responsibility has been pointed at a lack of national policy.\nHowever, locals recognize that they too contribute to the problem. \"Some of the problem of erosion is created by our people, by our attitude to waste disposal. When we dump garbage in the drains that are built by the government we simply aggravate the problem of erosion,\" said state environmental commissioner Michael Egbebike.\n\"And this waste combined with the force of the flood and trying to erode the soil and sometimes they actually block the channel that has been created for flood dispersion and the floods come back and actually destroy their homes, and at that point they call on government,\" he added.\nGeological studies of the area affected most by erosion, Anambra, have concluded that the cost of implementing a project which could effectively slow erosion are estimated at US$2 billion. Officials are looking for answers and help in funding a project at the Copenhagen environmental conference in December.\n\"We have a shortage of resources. The state is struggling because the monies spent on this erosion problem are huge sums of money. So we will of course need a lot of help from the international community and the federal government. Alone it would be a Herculean task for Anambra state,\" commented Egbebike."}
{"id": "143048", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143048", "title": "EU deems UK privacy laws inadequate, takes legal action", "text": "The European Union has warned the UK government that it does not do enough to protect its citizens' online privacy and personal data. Now the EU has moved to the next stage of legal action, which could see Britain taken to court.\nThe warning follows complaints over the Phorm company's targeted advertising system. The controversial technology is designed to track the activities of internet users, and was tested on some BT customers without their consent. Campaigners complained to various bodies including the UK's data protection agency, and the communications regulator Ofcom. No action was taken. The City of London police began an investigation, but this was soon dropped.\nThe EU Commission formally warned Britain that it was not meeting EU rules in April. Other countries that have been warned include Germany, Poland and Romania. However, last week the Commission moved onto the second stage of the infringement procedure against the UK, with a letter to the government.\nThe Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) has been particularly criticised by the Commission for its weak definition of \"consent\" and its limited sanctions. The Commission also found that there was no independent body to oversee and hear complaints about communications interception. Overall, the letter says that the UK fails to comply with the EU's Data Protection Directive and e-Privacy Directive.\n\"People's privacy and the integrity of their personal data in the digital world is not only an important matter: it is a fundamental right, protected by European law,\" the EU's Information Commissioner Viviane Reding said in a statement on Thursday. \"I therefore call on the UK authorities to change their national laws to ensure that British citizens fully benefit from the safeguards set out in EU law concerning confidentiality of electronic communications.\"\nThe Home Office confirmed that it had received the letter, but has so far not responded. Ministers said that they would reply to the letter after they have taken some time to consider it. The Home Office has two months to reply, and if the Commission is not satisfied with the response, then Britain could face charges in the European Court of Justice."}
{"id": "143054", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143054", "title": "Second grenade attack in Thailand injures eight", "text": ""}
{"id": "143057", "revid": "206860", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143057", "title": "Denmark holds nationwide light show to mark digital switchover", "text": "Denmark switched off its analog TV signal on Saturday evening, to be replaced by digital. To mark the event, a massive light show was held in which lights from seven locations were synchronised to appear identical from any location in Denmark.\nThe event, the largest Europe has ever seen, started at 6:00 p.m. local time and continued until 11:55, just before the midnight switchover. It was being run via projectors, each weighing in at 200kg, which have been installed on top of seven TV towers \u2014 in Jutland, Funen, Zealand, and Bornholm. The tallest of these, R\u00f8-senderen, stands 431 meters above sea level at Denmark's easternmost point, the island of Bornholm.\nThe show was organised and paid for by Boxer TV, which operates digital pay TV channels amongst the forty available on the digital signals. Boxer's director Steen Ulf Jensen said in a press release, \"The great light show will illustrate the amazing digital transformation that will happen to the television masts in the night. When the Danes wake up tomorrow, the masts will broadcast entirely digitally.\"\nEach beam could be seen 20km away and was projected 3km into the air. The project was designed by Jesper Kongshaug and is controlled by computer, utilising technology more regularly seen in Las Vegas and Hollywood.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "143089", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143089", "title": "Islamist militants blow up girls' school in Pakistan", "text": "A girls' school in the village of Kari Gar, within the tribal Khyber District, was blown up and destroyed by Islamist militants today morning. There were no reported deaths but four people passing by have been injured and a few homes in the neighbourhood have been slightly damaged.\nA boy who witnessed the scene is missing and local administration officials say that he has been probably kidnapped. There were two bombs planted in the government school of which all the eighteen rooms along with the building have been demolished.\nSchools had been closed after a suicide attack last month but many schools have opened recently.\nIslamist militants have often destroyed almost 200 schools in this semi-autonomous region on the border of Afghanistan. Pakistan is fighting against these Islamist militants in this area who have been causing problems in these areas."}
{"id": "143100", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143100", "title": "Celebrity chef John Burton Race charged with drink-driving in UK", "text": "The British celebrity chef John Burton Race has been charged with the offence of drink-driving.\nThe chef, who is famous for starring in such programmes as \"French Leave\" and \"Return of the Chef\", was pulled over by police on the A379 road in the county of Devon, England. The location was near to his restaurant entitled, \"The New Angel\". It was a routine check that took place in the early hours of Friday morning. After a breathalyser test, the chef was arrested for drink-driving. Another offence that he is being charged with is \"resisting or obstructing a constable\", which means to resist arrest.\nA Devon and Cornwall Constabulary spokeswoman released a statement to Sky News which said: \"John Burton Race, 52, was arrested on October 30 at about 1am. He has been charged with driving or attempting to drive with excess alcohol and resisting or obstructing a constable in the execution of their duty.\"\nJohn has now been released on an unconditional bail. He is expected to appear before magistrates in a courtroom in Newton Abbot on November 17, 2009."}
{"id": "143101", "revid": "129514", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143101", "title": "PIA", "text": ""}
{"id": "143102", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143102", "title": "British soldier killed by explosion in Afghanistan", "text": "A British soldier has been killed near the town of Sangin, in the Helmand Province of Afghanistan after a bomb explosion struck on Saturday afternoon. The death brings the current total of UK military personnel killed in Afghanistan up to 224 since 2001.\nThe soldier, who has not yet been named, was from the Royal Logistic Corps. His family has now been told of what has happened and they now ask for a 24-hour time grace period before releasing any more information. A statement released from the Ministry of Defence read: \"it is with great sadness that the Ministry of Defence must confirm the death of a soldier from the Royal Logistic Corps.\"\nLieutenant Colonel David Wakefield OBE, a spokesperson for \"Task Force Helmand\", also made a statement. \"It is with great sadness I confirm that a soldier from the Royal Logistic Corps died earlier today in an explosion in Helmand Province,\" he said. \"He will be missed by us, his comrades, but he will not be forgotten.\""}
{"id": "143104", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143104", "title": "Man arrested after fatal accident in Londonderry, Northern Ireland", "text": "A 23-year-old pedestrian walking along Racecourse Road in the city of Londonderry, Northern Ireland at around 0220 GMT on Sunday night was struck by a black Volkswagen Passat and has been killed. A 22-year-old man has now been arrested by the police and taken away for questioning, so as to assist police with their enquiries.\nThe road was closed so that investigations could be carried out but has since been reopened. The Police Service of Northern Ireland are asking any witnesses to contact them as soon as possible.\nAlso, another accident was reported which took place in Newtownhamilton, County Armagh in which two 17 year old boys were involved. One of them is severely ill while the other has been discharged from the hospital."}
{"id": "143116", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143116", "title": "Afghan presidential candidate Abdullah withdraws from elections", "text": "Afghan presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah said today that he will not participate in this week's runoff election against President Hamid Karzai, accusing the government of not meeting his demands for a fair vote.\nAbdullah said that his withdrawal is in protest of what he called the misconduct of the government and the country's Independent Election Commission (IEC).\nAbdullah had given Karzai until Saturday to remove the country's top election official Azizullah Ludin in an effort to avoid a repeat of the massive fraud that marred the August 20 presidential election. He also asked that four of the ministers who had campaigned for Karzai be suspended.\n\"I will not participate in the November 7 election [because a] transparent election is not possible,\" Abdullah said.\nAt a meeting in a tent in Afghanistan's capital Kabul, the candidate addressed a crowd of supporters. \u201cIn order to look God in the eye at this historic moment, I have made a decision,\u201d he told the meeting in a giant tent in Kabul. In protest against the illegal actions of the government and the electoral commission, I will not participate in the run-off. It hasn\u2019t been easy for me to make this decision.\"\nNegotiations between the Karzai and Abdullah campaigns regarding Abdullah's demands were held, but broke down early on Sunday, after Karzai completely rejected the deal. According to an unnamed diplomat, had Karzai agreed to the deal, Abdullah would have conceded, instead of withdrawing from the polls.\n\"In one hour, all my conditions could have been implemented. Unfortunately, until the last moment we were waiting, but we heard they rejected our appeals,\" Abdullah said.\nWaheed Omar, a spokesman for the Karzai campaign, defended Karzai's refusal, saying that the president didn't have the power to implement Abdullah's demands. \"What the UN called a shake-up of the election commission, that also to most part took place. But this specific demand was about removing the chairman of the election commission - constitutionally the President cannot remove them unless they are convicted by the court of law,\" he said.\nFollowing his announcement, Abdullah requested his supporters \"not to take to the streets. Not to feel grief. I know it is difficult,\" Abdullah said. \"After all, this is not [a] democratic environment. But at the same time, it is for a good cause. It is for the future generations of this country.\"\n\"The people have the right to have a fair election. But this election was a failure. It was not independent. It was not transparent.\"\nIn an interview with the Al Jazeera news agency, Abdullah described his feelings. \"It was the right decision, and I did it in the best interests of this country. As far as the process is concerned, hopefully there is a way forward. I will not enter into the constitutional implications of this decision. But I'll be pursuing the agenda for change and reform in any capacity that I'll be.\"\nKarzai campaign spokesman Omar said he believed the election is the right of the Afghan people. \"The withdrawal was Dr. Abdullah's personal choice. That should not affect the process as a whole,\" Omar said. He described the withdrawal as \"unfortunate\", but said he believed the elections should still continue. \"We believe that the elections have to go on, the process has to complete itself, the people of Afghanistan have to be given the right to vote.\"\nThis election's first polls, which were held this August, were affected by large amounts of ballot-stuffing, and over a million votes, or about a quarter of all ballots cast, were discounted by the election commissions. As a result, Karzai's vote count dropped to 49.67%, below the minimum of 50% needed to win the election without going into a runoff. Abdullah received 31% of the ballot.\nPower-sharing possibilities.\nAbdullah said that he would still \u201cleave the door open\u201d for future talks with Karzai. He refused to indicate what he believed should happen next, and would not endorse Karzai's presidential candidacy. He said that his decision to pull out was not done \u201cin exchange for anything from anybody.\"\n\"For the next few days I will let Mr. Karzai work it out for himself. I will be in the country. I will not shut any doors, but I will stick to the principles of my campaign,\" said Abdullah.\nHis vice-presidential candidate, Shah Asifi, indicated that a power-sharing agreement between the two candidates might be feasible. \"We have two moderate people. Both sides are reasonable people. They have worked together in the past. I think some kind of compromise is possible.\"\nBaryalai Arsalai, who was one of the presidential contenders before dropping out in the first round of votes to back Abdullah, said that a power sharing agreement could help make the government seem more legitimate.\nAn unnamed European diplomat predicted that Abdullah would be encouraged to formally retract his statements, and for the Afghan Supreme Court to rule a second round of voting as unnecessary. \"We don't see there will be any interest in a second round now. It will be a waste of time and resources,\" he said.\nOther diplomats told the Daily Telegraph news agency that there was little desire to host a second ballot with a single candidate, saying it would risk the lives of soldiers and voters, as the Taliban had pledged to disrupt elections with violence.\nInternational reaction.\nUnited Nations spokesman Aleem Siddique told the Voice of America (VOA) news agency that he believed Abdullah's decision was a difficult one. He said it was up to Afghan authorities to determine how to proceed. \"We need to wait to hear from Afghanistan's legal institutions - the Independent Election Commission and the Supreme Court - to give their interpretation of the next steps ahead,\" Siddique said.\nHe added, however, that it might be impractical to continue with the election, with one candidate. \"It's difficult to see how you can have a runoff with only one candidate,\" he said.\nPolitical analyst Haroun Mir said that the election's credibility would largely depend on voter turnout. \"Everything will depend on the voter turnout. If the turnout is high, [...] Karzai will be declared winner and he'll have legitimacy in the eyes of the Afghans and in the international community,\" Mir told Al Jazeera. \"But if the turnout is very low - below 25% - Karzai will be declared legally as president, but will not enjoy strong legitimacy.\"\nAfghan election officials said that according to the country's constitution, the polls must be held. A spokesman for the election commission told VOA that Abdullah had missed the deadline to officially withdraw. However, there has been increasing international pressure for Afghanistan to come up with some legal measures to bring an end to the elections. The IEC said it would review the constitution and decide whether polls really should be held or not.\nBritish prime minister Gordon Brown said that \"Dr Abdullah has pulled out of the election in the interests of national unity.\" He added that he told Karzai he believed it was important to establish an \"inclusive administration\" to fight corruption and create a popular local government, and to reach out to \"all parts of Afghan society.\"\n\u201cThe issue for me is what is to happen to Afghanistan in the future, given that our soldiers have contributed so much to the development of Afghan society,\u201d said the Prime Minister. \u201cWhat is going to happen is we have got to have a visible sign that the new administration is tackling corruption.\u201d \nThe United States government said that it would recognise Abdullah's withdrawal, and would support the next president. In a statement, US secretary of state Hillary Clinton said that she \"recognize[d] the decision by Dr Abdullah Abdullah not to participate in the second round of balloting in the Afghan presidential elections.\n\"It is now a matter for the Afghan authorities to decide on a way ahead that brings this electoral process to a conclusion in line with the Afghan constitution,\" she said. \"We will support the next president and the people of Afghanistan, who seek and deserve a better future.\"\nClinton also encouraged Abdullah to continue his peace efforts in the country. \u201cWe hope that he will continue to stay engaged in the national dialogue and work on behalf of the security and prosperity of the people of Afghanistan,\u201d she said.\nSenior White House aides also said that the US government was not likely to affect president Barack Obama's decision on whether to send more troops to Afghanistan. Abdullah's resignation came soon after the top US army commander in the country, Stanley McChrystal, requested an additional 40,000 troops to help fight the Taliban and al-Qaeda. The US, however, has been expected not to announce any new troop plans until after the runoff elections concluded.\nJohn Boehner, the Republican House Minority leader, remarked that the withdrawal would \"not hamper our decision with regard to Afghanistan.\" However, he encouraged Obama to make a decision regarding the country's Iraq military strategies soon.\n\"The longer this decision hangs, the more jeopardy and the more danger our troops on the ground there are in the middle of,\" said Boehner. \"I think everyone expected that President Karzai was going to be re-elected. So Dr Abdullah's exit from this race, I think, really says more about the fact that he knew he wasn't going to win.\"\nSenior White House advisor David Axelrod spoke about Abdullah's move in the televised \"Face the Nation\" programme on Sunday. \"Abdullah Abdullah made a political decision to withdraw. That doesn't markedly change the situation,\" he said.\nAccording to polls, Abdullah would have likely lost a runoff election anyway, Axelrod said. \"So we are going to deal with the government that is there. And obviously there are issues we need to discuss, such as reducing the high level of corruption. These are issues we'll take up with President Karzai.\""}
{"id": "143119", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143119", "title": "Islamist militants blow up a girls' school in Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "143124", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143124", "title": "At least eight dead after bombings in Iraq", "text": "Iraqi police have said that four bombs killed at least eight people and wounded more than 50 others on Sunday.\nPolice said a bomb attached to a bicycle exploded in a popular market in the town of Mussayab, about 60 kilometers (38 miles) south of the capital of Baghdad. The blast killed at least five people and wounded 37 others.\nMeanwhile, police in Ramadi, 100 kilometers (32 miles) west of the capital, reported that two bombs exploded minutes apart, killing two and wounding four others. \nA fourth bomb attached to a bus detonated as it approached a police checkpoint in the Shi'ite Muslim holy city of Karbala. The blast killed at least one person and wounded at least a dozen others. No one has claimed responsibility for the attacks.\nTwo powerful car bombings one week ago in Baghdad targeted Iraq's Ministry of Justice and a provincial government building, killing 155 people and wounding more than 500 others. An al-Qaeda-linked group claimed responsibility for those attacks.\nViolence in Iraq has dropped significantly in the past year. However, officials have warned that attacks could rise ahead of elections in January."}
{"id": "143126", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143126", "title": "Rail users highlight Teesside Airport 'ghost station'", "text": ""}
{"id": "143128", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143128", "title": "Afghan Presidential Challenger Withdraws, Creating Turmoil", "text": ""}
{"id": "143142", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143142", "title": "Celebrity chef John Burton Race charged with drink-driving", "text": ""}
{"id": "143146", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143146", "title": "Search continues for nine missing after midair collision off California", "text": "Three days after a US Navy helicopter collided with a US Coast Guard airplane off the coast of California, a search and rescue mission is ongoing for the nine crew onboard the two aircraft.\nThe two on board the AH-1W SuperCobra attack helicopter and seven on the C-130 Hercules transport plane were trained in survival and described as being in good physical condition, meaning rescuers maintain hope of finding them alive. They all had heat-retaining drysuits but it was unknown if they were wearing them at the time.\nThe accident occurred at 7:10 p.m. on Thursday in an area of military airspace that is sometimes closed to the public, although its status at the time of the accident was not known. The helicopter had been in formation with two transports and another SuperCobra to practise night flying, while the Coast Guard plane was conducting search and rescue for 50-year-old boater David Jines. The search for Jines ends today whether he is found or not.\nRear Admiral Joseph Castillo said today that the missing air crews are \"trained in survival tactics, they're trained also with the will to live. We know they have the ability to survive longer than you might expect.\" However, he also expressed concern that there may not be any survivors. \"... hope gets less every day. My hope today is not what it was yesterday.\"\nAfter searching 644 square miles of ocean with nine aircraft debris has been located from both the aircraft, but no trace has been found of those on board. Operations are currently focusing near the military's San Clemente Island, where an area of about 50 miles of floating wreckage is located.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "143148", "revid": "70202", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143148", "title": "Two people die after contracting H1N1 virus, number of swine flu deaths in Scotland rises to 28", "text": "Two people have died in Scotland as a result of the H1N1 virus, or swine flu. The Scottish Government revealed the information today.\nBoth of the victims were adults. One came from NHS Ayrshire and Arran and the other came from NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde. This announcement from the Scottish National Health Service (or NHS) means that the number of deaths from the virus in the country has now increased to 28.\nNicola Sturgeon, who is the current Cabinet Secretary for Health and Wellbeing in Scotland, made a statement about the situation: \"I am sorry to have to announce two more deaths and my thoughts are with the patients' loved ones at this distressing time.\" Nicola said that most people who caught the virus would make a full recovery after experiencing mild symptoms of the flu and that both of the victims in this particular case had underlying health problems. Sturgeon, who is also the Deputy First Minister of Scotland said: \"The vaccination is being rolled out but please wait until you are invited before visiting your GP for the vaccine.\""}
{"id": "143151", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143151", "title": "Heavy storm hits Philippines, kills fourteen", "text": "Tropical Storm Marinae is heading toward central Vietnam after lashing the central Philippines, where authorities say it killed at least 14 people.\nThe Philippines National Disaster Coordinating Council said on Sunday that most of the deaths were reported in Camarines Norte province. It added that four people remain missing.\nMarinae made landfall over the Philippines on Friday as a typhoon, triggering floods and displacing thousands of people still recovering from storms that hit the country weeks earlier.\nAuthorities, however, said that the damage from Marinae was less than the three earlier cyclones Ketsana, Parma and Lupit that battered the Philippines from late September to mid-October, killing more than 900 people. \nMany areas in the central Philippines remained flooded on Sunday, but that did not stop Filipinos from visiting cemeteries to pay respects to the dead on All Saints Day. Some people visited flooded cemeteries by boat.\nMarinae weakened into a tropical storm as it crossed the central Philippines and entered the South China Sea. It is expected to make landfall in central Vietnam on Monday."}
{"id": "143155", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143155", "title": "Russian military cargo jet crash kills eleven in Siberia", "text": "Eleven people are dead after a military cargo jet crashed in Siberia. The strategic airlifter, which belonged to Russia's Interior Ministry, came down shortly after takeoff in Mirny. There were no survivors.\nNo-one on the ground was injured by the Ilyushin Il-76, which lost control after it failed to gain altitude, banking hard to the right before hitting the ground two kilometers away near a disused mine. The plane did not achieve a height of beyond 20\u201330 meters.\nThe aircraft had been headed to Irkutsk and was being operated by interior troops. An inquiry was established to investigate. The Il-76 has been a major component of both the Russian and Soviet military since the 1970s, and had already seen a serious accident in Russia last month. On October 7 an engine separated on takeoff, without injuries. Russia briefly grounded Il-76s after that accident.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "143159", "revid": "206860", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143159", "title": "Xinhua says ship carrying hazardous goods sank in China's Yangtze river", "text": "According to Chinese state media \"Xinhua\", a ship carrying a hazardous cargo has sunk into the Yangtze river. The vessel took its cargo of 100 tonnes of highly corrosive hydrochloric acid down with it after colliding with another vessel today.\nThe report cited an official with the Hubei Provincial Environmental Protection Department as saying \"We are paying close attention to the water quality in this area,\" and that acidity is currently normal. The collision, attributed to strong winds, occurred in Jiangxi Province, where the stricken ship was registered.\nThe crew have been rescued and authorities say they have located the chemicals and are working to recover them. That process is expected to be completed early on Monday, according to \"Xinhua\".\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "143160", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143160", "title": "Xinhua says ship carrying hazardous goods has sunk in China's Yangtze river", "text": ""}
{"id": "143168", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143168", "title": "Charging elephant kills BBC guide in Tanzania", "text": "An expedition guide working for the BBC has died after he was charged by an elephant in Tanzania on Friday. Anton Turner was helping with the filming of Serious Explorers for CBBC, a children\u2019s branch of the BBC, when the incident happened. Three children were with the group when the incident happened but were unharmed. Despite the help of a doctor travelling with the group, Turner died shortly after the attack. \nA spokeswoman for the BBC released a statement saying that \"we would like to extend our deepest sympathy to Anton's family and friends. Anton was an extremely experienced expedition safari and wildlife ranger and former Army officer who had worked with the BBC in the past.\"\nShe added that an investigation had already begun into the death of Mr. Turner. \"As is usual with a serious accident, an immediate and thorough BBC investigation into the circumstances of this incident has already begun.\"\nA Foreign Aid spokeswoman confirmed the death of a British national in Tanzania. She added that his next of kin have been made aware. "}
{"id": "143172", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143172", "title": "Cyclone Heads to Vietnam After Killing 14 People in Philippines", "text": ""}
{"id": "143173", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143173", "title": "At Least 8 Killed in Iraq Bombings", "text": ""}
{"id": "143177", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143177", "title": "Afghanistan Announces Arrests in UN Guesthouse Attack", "text": ""}
{"id": "143179", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143179", "title": "Two killed in landslide in Tenerife", "text": "At least two people have been killed in a landslide at the Playa de los Gigantes beach on the Spanish island of Tenerife. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has confirmed the information today.\nThe victims were both women. One of them was identified as a 34-year-old woman from the southern part of the island. The other was identified as Marion Auril O'Hara, a 57-year-old woman from the United Kingdom. The collapsing of the cliff, which was on a small beach and stretched 130 feet (40 metres), occurred at around 1600 GMT on Sunday.\nInitially, it was believed that there were six people trapped underneath the cliff. 150 rescue workers dug with picks and shovels, and continued digging for over four hours. However, the search was later scaled down, with the Senior Civil Guard Officer saying that \"we now believe that these two women were the only victims.\"\nHoward Williams, who was on holiday from the United Kingdom in the area, told Sky News Online that \"police were aware the cliff was dangerous for days, but the only thing they put in place was a bit of builder's tape.\""}
{"id": "143181", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143181", "title": "Wikinews interviews Dr Clive Hamilton about the upcoming by-election in the Higgins electorate of the Australian parliament", "text": "With two by-elections coming up in Australia, many minor parties and independents will be looking to gain a seat in the House of Representatives. Dr Clive Hamilton AM is one of the independents / candidate for the Australian Greens.\nDr Hamilton was awarded Member of the Order of Australia honours for his contributions to public debate and public policy earlier this year.\nWikinews reporter held an exclusive email interview with Dr Hamilton, candidate for the Division of Higgins. In participating in this interview, Dr Hamilton was about to fly out to a function.\nInterview.\nWhy do you want to get into parliament?\nThe main reason for standing as the Greens candidate for Higgins is that I am extremely worried about climate change. The future of our children is at stake yet the main political parties seem more interested in appeasing the fossil fuel lobby.\nWhy do you represent your party?\nThe Greens policy on climate change is the only one that is based on what the climate scientists are convinced we need to do.\nWhat would the three main policies you are taking into this by-election be?\nClimate change policy, asylum seekers and work-life balance.\nHow would you address these policies?\nThe Greens have strong policies in these areas.\nSending asylum seekers to Indonesia: good or bad?\nWe have a legal and moral obligation to land asylum seekers in Australia if they are found in Australian waters, then to quickly assess their claims. Sending them to Indonesian camps is inhumane, as anyone who knows anything about Indonesian prisons will testify.\nIs the Australian dollar's near parrity with the US dollar a sign that the Australian economy is healthy, the US economy in chaos or both?\"\nThis is too big a question to answer in any detail, except to say that rapid changes in the A$ are not healthy, and if it rises too high it will penalize our export industries, exacerbating the trade deficit. The last thing we want is a return to the 1980s when the $A bounced around as a result of currency speculation.\nHow do you rate the governments economic stimulus package?\nOverall, it was a necessary response.\nShould it be wound back?\n\"Dr Hamilton didn't answer this question\"\nIs Kevin Rudd a better Prime Minister than John Howard?\n\"Dr Hamilton didn't answer this question\"\nIs the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme an effective sollution to climate change? Why?\nThe CPRS is a wholly inadequate and dangerous response to climate change. The climate scientists say countries like Australia must cut emissions by 25-40 per cent by 2020 to have any chance of avoiding two degrees of warming. If the world followed the Rudd plan we would experience four degrees or more, which would be catastrophic.\nIs there a better sollution?\nThe Greens\u2019 safe climate package is a proportionate response.\nWhy should the electorate vote for you?\nSee above."}
{"id": "143182", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143182", "title": "Mozambique FRELIMO party to win elections, partial results indicate", "text": "Partial results from Mozambique's Wednesday elections indicate that the incumbent FRELIMO, or the Mozambican Liberation Front party, will win around three-quarters of the votes, giving it a comfortable victory.\nPreliminary results released by the National Electoral Commission indicated that Armando Guebuza, the president of Mozambique, has 74% of votes in the presidential elections, or 536,440 votes, according to results based on 18% of polling stations. \nThe opposition candidate Daviz Simango, who is the mayor of the city of Beira, came in a distant second, with 17%, or 121,543 votes. Another opposition party candidate, Afonso Dhlakama, trailed in third place, having 9%, or 64,893 votes.\nIn the parliamentary elections, Frelimo will win 192 of 248 seats, according to preliminary results. The figure is expected to be about 30 seats more than in the last elections.\nNo official figures for voter turnout have yet been released, but estimates suggest that the numbers are higher than in the last elections, held in 2004, when 36% of eligible voters cast their ballots."}
{"id": "143197", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143197", "title": "Suspected Iraqi bomber murders investigator", "text": "A man suspected of being involved in a bombing targeting Iraqi ministries stole a gun from an officer, wounded a officer and mortally wounded a senior investigator, reported Iraqi officials Sunday.\nAfter being wounded, investigator Arkan Hachim returned fire at the suspect and fatally wounded him, according to the Ministry of the Interior.\nOfficials declared the incident \"a dereliction\", and said they would investigate further into the shooting. The Ministry has not yet identified the suspect, and did not give any information concerning evidence of the man's involvement nor the time of the shooting.\nThe bombs targeted the Justice Ministry and the Baghdad Provincial Council buildings, killing close to 160 people and injuring hundreds. \nThe handgun was taken while a guard escorted the suspect to get a drink of water, and wounded the guard after taking the gun.\nPrime Minister Nouri al-Maliki believes that Sunni insurgents are the cause of the bombings, and has asked the UN to investigate. "}
{"id": "143205", "revid": "7186", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143205", "title": "Blast near Pakistan army headquarters kills 24", "text": "A suicide bomber has killed at least 24 people near the Pakistani army headquarters in Rawalpindi when he detonated explosives while riding on a motorbike outside a bank, several hundred metres away from army headquarters. Gunmen had kept up a 24-hour hostage-taking assault last month at those same headquarters. \nMany people, such as retired and serving military officials, civilians, had come to the bank to collect their salaries, were killed or wounded by the blast. Many hospitals declared emergency services and rushed to help the people out. All schools and colleges around the city were closed.\nSoon after the bomb blast, military personnel patrolled the road and diverted all the traffic in front of the bank and Shalimar hotel beside it. Most of the people who died were wounded in the blast were mainly military officials.\nThe bomb blast destroyed many window panes in the building and in neighbouring buildings. Raja Sajid, who was an eyewitness to the incident, helped people into the ambulances. Television stations showed ambulances and police vehicles racing to the scene. \u201cI helped the rescuers and put several of them in the ambulances. An old man stained in blood was crying for help,\" he said.\nThe blast comes as the United Nations announced it was withdrawing its international staff from northwestern Pakistan due to security concerns. Militants carried out several retaliatory attacks last month that killed hundreds of people. "}
{"id": "143209", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143209", "title": "Scotland suffers severe flooding following downpour", "text": "Parts of Scotland, including, Aberdeenshire, Arbroath, Tayside, and Grampian have experienced severe flooding following heavy rains.\nAbroath is being described as virtually cut off, with major routes including the main railway\nline to Aberdeen disrupted.\nA spokesperson for Aberdeenshire council was quoted as saying that \"our crews have been working throughout the night providing support to the emergency services, keeping roads clear as best they can and helping with the evacuation of residents.\n\"The torrential rainfall across a large part of Aberdeenshire has meant that our crews have been stretched very thinly but they have been committed to helping wherever possible.\n\"Our resources were stretched to the limit. We'd already given out most of our sandbags. Anyone experiencing flood-related difficulties can phone 01224 665400 and we will offer advice, support and assistance.\" \nSuperintendent Innes Walker of Grampian Police said that \"people should not take journeys unless absolutely necessary and they should listen to the radio for updates on road conditions.\n\"The advice we are getting from the Met Office is that conditions improved overnight but clearly there will be a knock on effect for commuters.\n\"Grampian Police are working with the local authority, Scottish Ambulance Service, Grampian Fire and Rescue and the Coastguard to alleviate the problems and minimise the effects of this flooding on affected people.\"\nFlood helpline for Aberdeenshire - 01224 665400\nScottish Environment Agency Floodline - 0845 988 1188"}
{"id": "143214", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143214", "title": "Blast Near Pakistan Army Headquarters Kills 20", "text": ""}
{"id": "143224", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143224", "title": "Blast Near Pakistan Army Headquarters Kills 24", "text": ""}
{"id": "143227", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143227", "title": "'Twin Towers' warship set to enter New York", "text": "A warship built with steel from the World Trade Center is set to enter New York and travel up the Hudson River to the site of Ground Zero. 7.5 tons of steel from the buildings have been used in the construction of the USS \"New York\". When the ship reaches Ground Zero it will fire a 21-gun salute. The ceremony will be viewed by relatives of those who lost their life during the September 11 attacks as well as rescuers and the public. \nThe official commissioning ceremony takes place on Saturday. \nThe crest of the ship features the images of the Twin Towers and the colours of the departments that first responded to the attacks.\nThe ship has 361 sailors serving aboard of which around 1 in 7 is from New York. A spokeswoman for the U.S Navy said that there had been many requests to serve on the ship.\nThe USS New York departed from Mississippi on October 14. This is the sixth ship to be named after the State of New York."}
{"id": "143229", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143229", "title": "Man killed over Halloween hat in London, England", "text": "A man was beaten to death in London after he attempted to retrieve a Halloween hat that had been stolen from his girlfriend. Ben Gardner was on a night out with his girlfriend to celebrate Halloween when his girlfriend's witch\u2019s hat was stolen and spat in by a gang of people. \nWhen Gardner tried to get the hat back he was repeatedly punched and kicked by a group of people who appeared to be both men and women. The attack happened at 3:30 a.m. on Sunday morning. His girlfriend was also punched during the attack. \nGardner died in hospital on Sunday evening after the attack in Sutton, in the south of London. Detective Inspector Bob Campany released a statement saying \"This appears to be a violent unprovoked attack on an innocent man who was out enjoying Halloween night with his girlfriend.\"\nFive men and two women are being questioned by police. Another man has been questioned but released with no further action being taken. "}
{"id": "143249", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143249", "title": "Karzai declared winner of Afghan elections, runoff polls cancelled", "text": "Afghanistan's Independent Election Commission stated today that it cancelled the presidential runoff, originally scheduled for November 7, and officially declared president Hamid Karzai the winner. This announcement comes a day after President Hamid Karzai's main challenger, former foreign minister Abdullah Abdullah, withdrew from the race. \n\"We declare that Mr. Hamid Karzai, [who] got the majority of votes in the first round and [who] is the only candidate for the second round of elections of Afghanistan in 2009, we declare [is] the elected president of Afghanistan.\" said Azizullah Lodin, the Independent Election Commission (IEC) president.\nThe IEC had come under international pressure to end the uncertainty and quickly declare Karzai the winner.\nLodin also said officials decided to cancel the runoff in order to save Afghans the expense and security risk of another election. Diplomats said that they had found enough ambiguity in the Afghan constitution to determine the runoff as unnecessary. This contradicts earlier reports, which said that cancelling the runoff would have been against the constitution.\n\"In order to avoid wasting fund and possible untoward incidents, the IEC in line with the constitution has decided to announce Hamid Karzai as the winner of the race and president of the country,\" he noted at a press conference.\nThis is to be Karzai's second term as president. Each term lasts five years, and according to the country's constitution, he is not eligible to run again. \nSenior diplomats said they did not want a runoff election to be hosted, saying it would risk the lives of troops and civilians, as the Taliban had promised to disrupt any further polls.\nIn an interview with the Chinese Xinhua news agency, however, a spokesman for Abdullah said that the IEC's decision would not help solve the problem. He said that Karzai would only be seen as legitimate with the people who had voted for him in the first polls, and wouldn't be seen as a legitimate ruler to the \"52%\" who didn't. \"Announcing Karzai as winner of the runoff would not solve the problem and instead would complicate it,\" Fazil Sangcharaki said.\nAbdullah withdrew from the polls on Saturday, after his requests for several IEC ministers to be suspended and other changes to the commission were rejected by Karzai. The latter said he was unable legally to fulfill the other's requests.\nAbdullah said that he could not accept a runoff overseen by the same people who were in charge of the August 20 poll. \"[I won't participate] because of the action taken by this government and the action taken by the IEC,\" he told supporters.\nIn that round of voting, international officials uncovered large amounts of fraudulent votes, mainly those for Karzai. As a result, his victory fell below 50%, the minimum needed to avoid going to a runoff election.\nInternational reaction.\nThe secretary-general of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, who is in the capital of Kabul, congratulated Karzai on winning the elections. \"Afghanistan now faces significant challenges and the new president must move swiftly to form a government that is able to command the support of both the Afghan people and the international community,\" he said.\nBan added that the international community remains committed to Afghanistan. \"We will not be deterred, we cannot be deterred, and we must not be deterred, and the work of the United Nations will continue,\" he said.\nThe United Kingdom and the United States both welcomed the election commission's move. A spokesman for UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown said that he had telephoned Karzai and congratulated him. \"They discussed the importance of the president moving quickly to set out a unifying programme for the future of Afghanistan,\" he said.\n\"Afghanistan now needs new and urgent measures for tackling corruption, strengthening local government and reaching out to all parts of Afghan society, and to give the Afghan people a real stake in their future,\" Brown said to the UK parliament. \"President Karzai agreed with me Afghanistan now needs to strengthen its army and police numbers so over time we can reduce our troops.\" He also encouraged Karzai to continue work on a \"unity programme for the future of Afghanistan\".\nThe US embassy to Afghanistan noted that it accepted the IEC's move. \"The United States welcomes the decision by the Independent Election Commission to conclude Afghanistan's electoral process by forgoing a second round of balloting,\" it stated.\nUS Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said that her government \"will support the next president and the people of Afghanistan, who seek and deserve a better future.\" She described Abdullah's campaign as being \"dignified and constructive\".\nWhite House spokesman Robert Gibbs said that \"Karzai has been declared the winner of the Afghan election [...] so obviously he's the legitimate leader of the country.\" He added that the committee's move would not impact the US's decision on troop levels in Afghanistan, but would be made in coming weeks, as planned.\n\"This decision was not dependent upon when a leader was determined. We've never said that. Now begin the hard conversations.\"\nUS president Barack Obama congratulated Karzai on his victory in a telephone call. \"Although the process was messy, I am pleased to say that the final outcome was determined in accordance with Afghan law,\" said he.\nHowever, Obama added that Karzai should be \"much more serious\" about fighting corruption. \"I emphasised that this has to be a point in time in which we write a new chapter based on improved governance, a much more serious effort to eradicate corruption [and] joint efforts to accelerate the training of Afghan security forces,\" Obama remarked.\n\"He [Karzai] assured me that he understood the importance of this moment. But as I indicated to him, the proof is not going to be in words. It is going to be in deeds,\" he said.\nConcerns over legitimacy.\nPolitical observer Wahid Mujda, however, said that he was skeptical about whether Karzai would be able to govern well in his next five years in office. \"The legitimacy of Karzai's government in the provinces where he obtained fewer votes would be questioned and he would have a weak administration,\" Mujda said, as quoted by Xinhua. \"The next administration of Karzai will not get people support unless it overcomes the menace of corruption, provide job opportunities and alleviate poverty in rural areas.\"\nKabul-based political analyst Haroun Mir said that Karzai would have to reach out to Abdullah supporters in order to be seen as legitimate in their eyes.\n\"Karzai won't be able to govern the country alone. He will have to reach out to Abdullah because those who voted for [Abdullah] in the north and east will refuse to recognise the legitimacy of a Karzai government,\" he said to The Australian.\n\"There's a resignation that Karzai is the player we are going to have to deal with, but he is being told in no uncertain terms, that he is a wounded animal,\u201d a senior Western official remarked to Times Online. \u201cIn the eyes of the Afghan people and in the eyes of the international community he has to rebuild his credibility.\"\nPower-sharing possibilities.\nBoth Abdullah and Karzai had earlier rejected suggestions to implement a coalition government between the two. However, Karzai, after his reelection, has come under increasing international pressure to bring back Abdullah, who used to be Afghanistan's Foreign Minister, into the government in some way to help provide national unity.\nDiplomats said that the international community accepted Karzai as the president, but wanted to make sure that the government was inclusive enough to tackle the Taliban.\nUK prime minister Brown and US Secretary of State Clinton had both suggested to Karzai on Sunday that he consider an \"inclusive\" government."}
{"id": "143250", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143250", "title": "Karzai declared winner of elections, runoff polls cancelled", "text": ""}
{"id": "143254", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143254", "title": "Wife of English footballer Wayne Rooney gives birth to baby boy", "text": "The wife of English football player Wayne Rooney has given birth to a baby boy in Liverpool, England.\nColeen Rooney gave birth to the child in the Liverpool Women's Hospital at 1420 GMT, after being nine days overdue. The child has been named Kai Wayne Rooney. The father was present at the birth. The birth itself was natural, however Coleen did have to be induced.\nA spokesperson for the married couple has said: \"Mother and baby are both absolutely fine. Wayne and Coleen are thrilled with the wonderful addition to their family life.\" Wayne Rooney is a striker player for Manchester United F.C. He had to abandon earlier training sessions due to the birth taking place."}
{"id": "143269", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143269", "title": "Man arrested in slaying of six-member family near Tel Aviv, Israel", "text": "Police have arrested a man in the murders of a family of six found stabbed to death in their burning apartment near Tel Aviv, Israel. Damian Kirilik, 38, is believed to have killed the Oshrenko family at their home in Rishon LeZion after being fired from their restaurant.\nKirilik gave a re-enactment of his alleged actions which saw him wait at the house for each person to return home before killing them. The deceased were 56-year-old grandparents Edward and Lyudmilla Oshrenko, their son and daughter-in-law Dmitry and Tatyana Oshrenko and the children, three-year-old girl Revital and four-month-old boy Netanel.\nThe Oshrenkos were Russian immigrants who ran the restaurant and several clubs for other Russian Israelis. Kirilik, too, had emigrated from Russia five years ago, where he is alleged to be wanted for robbery. Around two years ago he was sacked from his position as head waiter and police say the years had turned this grudge into hatred.\nPolice central command chief major general Nissim Mor said Kirilik had asked to be forgiven while kneeling before the infant's cot. Mor commented that \"there is no forgiveness for such a thing.\" Kirilik's wife has admitted to assisting her husband in plans to rob the Oshenkos and is also in custody for assisting him, as are several other Kirilik family members. The murders they are accused of involvement in have been described as \"one of Israel's worst-ever [crimes]\", according to the \"Agence France-Presse\" news agency."}
{"id": "143274", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143274", "title": "Man arrested in slaying of six-member family near Tel Aviv", "text": ""}
{"id": "143282", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143282", "title": "Elderly man in Scotland dies after contracting H1N1 swine flu virus", "text": "An elderly man in Scotland has died after contacting the H1N1 virus, or swine flu. The Scottish Government made the confirmation of the information on Monday.\nThe victim is said to have been suffering from underlying health problems. He came from the area. With the death of this victim, the number of deaths that have occurred in Scotland from the virus has now reached 30.\nNicola Sturgeon, the Scottish , made a statement about the incident, and encouraged eligible persons to receive antiviral vaccines. \"My deepest sympathy goes to the patient's loved ones at this sad time,\" she said.\n\"H1N1 can be devastating in a small number of cases but fortunately the vast majority of people only suffer fairly mild symptoms and make a full recovery. However, we must all remain vigilant and I would underline the importance of maintaining hygiene standards and urgently seeking medical advice if you believe you are at greater risk of influenza complications.\""}
{"id": "143291", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143291", "title": "Elderly man dies after contracting H1N1 virus, number of swine flu deaths in Scotland rises to 30", "text": ""}
{"id": "143300", "revid": "18761", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143300", "title": "Automobile manufacturer Ford posts unexpected profits", "text": "The US automobile manufacturer Ford has said that it posted a net profit of US$997 million in the third quarter of this year, and predicted that it would be \"solidly profitable\" by 2011. The reports surprised most analysts, who had forecast that the auto company would lose money.\nFord's profits equate to 26 cents per share, a large difference to the 12 cent per share lost that had been anticipated by most economic analysts.\n\"Our third-quarter results clearly show Ford is making tremendous progress despite the prolonged economic slump,\" said the firm's chief executive officer, Alan Mulally. \"While we still face a challenging road ahead, our transformation is working and our underlying business continues to grow stronger.\"\nMulally predicted that his company would meet or even surpass all of its financial targets, and suggested that the fourth quarter of this year could see it post an operating profit."}
{"id": "143314", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143314", "title": "Scientology website hacked", "text": "The Church of Scientology's European website was hacked and defaced earlier today by hackers claiming to be members of Anonymous. Anonymous proponents previously hacked Scientology's main website, www.scientology.org. The group also protested the church in February 2008.\nAnother website run by the church, freedom-belgium.org, was also hacked and defaced. The hacked websites contain content taken from .whyaretheydead.info, a website critical of Scientology which lists members of the Church who are alleged to have died while in its care. Anonymous has stated that whyaretheydead.info was not involved in the hacking, but the hackers merely used content from their website.\nThis is not the first time hackers have defaced Scientology websites. In January 2008, 'Anonymous' hacked the Church's international website by using a denial-of-service attack. The attack caused the website to be inaccessible for nearly 24 hours."}
{"id": "143319", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143319", "title": "Seventeen year old accused of raping four year old in Kherwadi, Mumbai", "text": "A seventeen year old resident of a slum in Bandra, Mumbai, India, along with his sixteen year old friend, has been accused of raping his four year old neighbour in his home when his parents were away yesterday around 22:00 (+5.5 UTC). The boys, both minors, are scheduled to appear in juvenile court today.\nThe four year old girl was called to Bindu's home to mop some spilled water where he and his friend allegedly raped her. They then warned her not to tell anything about what happened there. The girl was left deserted in front of her home by the boys later.\nHer mother was shocked to see the girl bleeding all over. Their parents, along with the child, rushed to V. N. Desai hospital where she is being treated. One of the neighbours said, \"Though Bindu [the accused] was very mischievous, we never expected that he would do such a thing.\" Bindu's father was also unreachable."}
{"id": "143320", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143320", "title": "New ocean forming in African desert", "text": "Geologists have confirmed that the African continent is being torn in two, forming a new ocean. An international collaboration has shown that a 35 mile long rift in the region of the Ethiopian desert, which opened in 2005, is likely to be the beginning of a new sea.\nThe recent study, published in the journal \"\", brings together seismic data from the formation of the rift, showing that it is driven by similar processes to those at the bottom of oceans.\nAfrican and Arabian meet in the desert, and have been slowly pulling apart for roughly 30 million years. The same movement has also been parting the . But this is only at a speed of less than 1 inch per year.\nThe sudden cracking in 2005, referred to by geologists as a \"mega-dike intrusion\", opened up a rift over 20 feet wide in places. The study has found that this happened over only a few days. According to Cindy Ebinger, a co-author of the study from the : \"We know that seafloor ridges are created by a similar intrusion of magma into a rift, but we never knew that a huge length of the ridge could break open at once like this.\"\nThe investigation was led by Professor Atalay Ayele of in Ethiopia. As well as Rochester, other groups involved included ; ; , United Kingdom; , France; and , New York.\n\"The whole point of this study is to learn whether what is happening in Ethiopia is like what is happening at the bottom of the ocean where it's almost impossible for us to go,\" said Ebinger. \"Because of the unprecedented cross-border collaboration behind this research, we now know that the answer is yes, it is analogous.\""}
{"id": "143322", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143322", "title": "17 year old rapes 4 year old in Kherwadi, Mumbai", "text": ""}
{"id": "143341", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143341", "title": "Polls held for US state and local elections, with incomplete GOP success", "text": "Voters went to the polls on Tuesday for several US state elections seen by some as a referendum on the policies of President Barack Obama one year after his election (and by others as a purely local election). A few key races in the elections are in states the president carried last year. \nIn Virginia, results indicated that Republican candidate Bob McDonnell won over Democrat Creigh Deeds in the governor's race. Polls suggested that many independent voters in the state who last year voted for Obama supported McDonnell. \nAnother race being closely watched was in New Jersey, normally a safe Democratic area. The New Jersey State Assembly remained Democratic, but the Republican challenger won the governorship. Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was competing with Republican challenger Chris Christie. \nObama has campaigned for both Democratic candidates, trying to avoid a result that Republicans would interpret as a rejection of his policies on the economy, health care and other issues. \nPolitical analysts say Republican victories in both New Jersey and Virginia would energize the Obama administration's opponents and set up a major battle for control of Congress in the 2010 midterm elections. \nElsewhere in the country, a closely watched special congressional election in upstate New York has exposed tensions between moderates and conservatives within the Republican party. A Democrat apparently won that seat, which the Republican candidate supported after retiring from the race.\nIn New York City, Mayor Michael Bloomberg is expected to easily win a third term in office. (He won, but by a closer margin than expected.) Mayoral races also are on the ballot in the cities of Atlanta, Houston, Boston, Detroit and Pittsburgh. \nIn a number of states, the public will vote on controversial issues such as legalized gambling, same-sex marriage (which lost) and allowing marijuana use for medical reasons (which won)."}
{"id": "143362", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143362", "title": "Sierra Leone rebel convicts sent to Rwandan jail", "text": "Sierra Leone has transferred eight convicted former rebel leaders to Rwanda's Mpanga prison to serve out their sentences. \nEight former rebels, convicted of atrocities committed during Sierra Leone's decade-long civil war, have been transferred to a Rwandan prison to serve their sentences.\nLast Sunday, the convicts were sent to Rwanda's Mpanga prison, a facility that meets the minimum international standards for incarceration. The prisoners included both rebel and loyalist militia leaders, convicted of , including amputation, enlisting child soldiers, and sexual slavery.\nThe acting registrar for Sierra Leone's Special Court, Binta Mansaray, said that there are no prisons in Sierra Leone that meet international standards. However, Rwanda is able and willing to enforce the sentences.\n\"They have excellent facilities as far as a prison is concerned,\" Mansaray said. \"Whereas in Sierra Leone, while the country is moving in the right direction in terms of strengthening democratic institutions, especially the security sector, we have been advised by past governments that the country is not yet in a position to enforce sentences due to weak institutional arrangements.\" \nRwanda established the Mpanga prison to accommodate prisoners convicted of war crimes committed during the . In March, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda signed an agreement with its fellow Special Court to hold prisoners convicted by the Sierra Leonean tribunal."}
{"id": "143365", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143365", "title": "Equatorial Guinea coup plotters pardoned, released from jail", "text": "British mercenary Simon Mann was released from a jail in Equatorial Guinea after being pardoned for attempting to overthrow the government.\nMann, along with several dozen other suspected plotters, was arrested five years ago on charges of trying to start a coup to overthrow president Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo. Their plans were foiled, however, and Mann was arrested after arriving in Zimbabwe to purchase firearms and grenades.\nThe conspirators had planned to install exiled opposition leader Severo Moto as president and to gain control over the country's vast oil supplies. Equatorial Guinea is Africa's third biggest oil producer.\nThe government said that the decision was made on compassionate grounds, seeing as Mann, aged 57, was reportedly not in good health. It stated that Mann had \"shown sufficient and credible signs of repentance and a desire to take his place in society.\"\nAmnesty was also given to four other co-conspirators, among them Nick Du Toit, from South Africa.\nMann was arrested along with 63 others in 2004 when his plane landed in Zimbabwe allegedly to collect arms bought from the country's state arms manufacturer. He was extradited to Equatorial Guinea in 2008."}
{"id": "143366", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143366", "title": "Equatorial Guinea", "text": ""}
{"id": "143368", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143368", "title": "Mt. Kilimanjaro to melt down in twenty years", "text": ""}
{"id": "143372", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143372", "title": "Sierra Leone Rebel Convicts Sent to Rwandan Jail", "text": ""}
{"id": "143378", "revid": "7186", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143378", "title": "Staffordshire hoard goes on display in British Museum in London, England", "text": "Some of the notable pieces from the gold and silver hoard which was found in a private field in , England by a metal-detector user have been put on display in the in the city of London. \nApproximately 1,500 pieces were found in July of this year; the discovery was reported by news sources in September. The value of the hoard itself is still being checked. 18 of the pieces have now gone on display in the museum in London, England, and can be seen by members of the public.\nFred Johnson, who is the owner of the land in which the hoard was found, said: \"It's been an incredible experience. I'm overwhelmed by it all. They say this will change the history books; it's a strange thought that came from something lying in my field all this time. I'm trying to keep a level head about it. I'm trying not to think at all about the value of it.\" Johnson will share the sum of the value of the hoard with Terry Herbert, who found the pieces. The hoard is believed to date back to the 7th century.\n\"People laugh at metal detectorists,\" Herbert said in late September. \"I've had people go past and go 'beep beep, he's after pennies'. Well no, we are out there to find this kind of stuff and it is out there.\" \nMichael Lewis is the deputy head of the Department of Portable Antiquities in the British Museum. Speaking to about this event, he said: \"The view is that it was probably in some sort of container but that has not survived and it was deliberately hoarded, put into the ground, what is unclear is why, and I suppose what we find is they would have been objects that had been stripped from the enemies' weapons.\n\"What is interesting about the hoard as a whole is all the objects are associated with war to some or a greater extent. What the hoard consists of is mainly gold objects, there are some silver ones, basically they have been stripped from whatever they were on for instance sword fittings. What it demonstrates is that the as a people were very able to do amazing things with objects and I reckon people nowadays attempting to make these objects would have great difficulty in doing so.\""}
{"id": "143399", "revid": "1977", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143399", "title": "Polls Open in US State Elections", "text": ""}
{"id": "143411", "revid": "1977", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143411", "title": "Polls open in US state elections", "text": ""}
{"id": "143413", "revid": "16349", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143413", "title": "French structuralist Claude L\u00e9vi-Strauss dies", "text": ""}
{"id": "143416", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143416", "title": "Tom Menino wins historic fifth term as Mayor of Boston; plus results from area cities", "text": "With sixteen years under his belt, Thomas Menino has won his fifth term as Mayor of Boston, longer than any other mayor in Boston's history since it elected its first mayor nearly 200 years ago. Menino became acting mayor on July 12, 1993 when he assumed the position after the resignation of Mayor Ray Flynn, who left to become Ambassador to the Holy See. Menino won his first election that November. On July 12 of this year, he became Boston's longest reigning mayor.\nMenino defeated his opponents, the combined team of City Councilors At-Large Michael Flahtery and Sam Yoon, 57.3% to 42.4%. Menino addressed his supporters at the Fairmont Copley Plaza Hotel saying, \"The headlines may read that today we were elected to a fifth, historic term. Let's be clear: We haven't made history with this election, but we will, with what we create of it.\"\nAcross the city, at Venezia, an Italian restaurant in Dorchester, a somber Flahtery told the crowd, \"Although the outcome of this election was not what any of us had hoped for, we have had some important conversations over the last year and we've also raised the expectations of Bostonians throughout every single neighborhood.\" He added, \"We've given a voice to many people in this city who have not been heard for years.\"\nFlahtery hoped to beat Menino using a unique tactic by adopting a running mate, fellow city councilor Sam Yoon, who placed third in the September primary election. Had Flahtery won, Yoon was to become deputy mayor, a position that was abolished after Mayor Kevin White left office in 1984.\nMeanwhile, in Newton, Boston's western neighbor and the tenth-largest city in the state, voters elected it's first African-American mayor, Setti Warren, who is a former aide to Massachusetts Senator John Kerry. Warren is also an intelligence officer in the United States Navy Reserve who has served in Iraq. Warren defeated State Representative Ruth Balser by a vote of 11,210 to 10,747 in unofficial results. Warren will take over from the outgoing mayor, David Cohen.\nTo the north, in Lynn, the state's ninth largest city, a surprise upset occurred as City Councilor-At-Large Judith Flanagan Kennedy defeated incumbent Mayor Edward J. \"Chip\" Clancy, 49.94% to 49.78% by just 27 votes to become the city's first female mayor. A recount is expected in what has been a bitter mayoral race with plenty of twists including allegations of state election law violations by Clancy's campaign sending out fliers with her signature indicating a support for raising property taxes. \nOn Kennedy's side, it was revealed that her campaign manager, Dennis Liberge, was convicted on drug charges 17 years ago in the state of Maine. Kennedy jumped into the race after the death of the previous challenger, former Mayor Pat McManus, winning the primary with a sticker campaign, winning by 211 votes.\nOn her victory Kennedy commented to the \"Boston Globe\", \"A win is a win. With a race this close, we're probably in recount territory. We will take 27 votes and see what happens.\"\nFurther north, in the city of Lawrence, the city elected it's first Hispanic-American mayor, State Representative William Lantigua, who becomes the first Hispanic mayor in the state, with Lantigua beating City Councilor David Abdoo by just under a 1,000 votes.\nTo the south, in Quincy, a rematch occurred between incumbent mayor Thomas Koch defeated former Mayor William Phelan, whom Koch ousted during the last election in 2007, by a unofficial margin of 54% to 46% for Phelan.\nMassachusetts' second and third-largest cities also held elections. Worcester, the second-largest city in the state elected Joseph O'Brien to be the city's new mayor, defeating incumbent Konstantina Lukes. Meanwhile, Springfield, the state's third-largest city elected Mayor Domenic Sarno to a second term. They also voted to change mayoral term-limits from two-years to four-years. Sarno will serve a two-year term. "}
{"id": "143418", "revid": "1977", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143418", "title": "Polls held for US state elections", "text": ""}
{"id": "143425", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143425", "title": "Seventeen year old rapes four year old in Kherwadi, Mumbai", "text": ""}
{"id": "143429", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143429", "title": "Musharraf", "text": ""}
{"id": "143430", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143430", "title": "Rawalpindi", "text": ""}
{"id": "143437", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143437", "title": "Afghan policeman shoots and kills five British soldiers", "text": "A \"rogue\" policeman from Afghanistan has shot down and killed five British soldiers in the Helmand province of South Afghanistan today. According to the government, the attack happened in the Nad-e'Ali District of Helmand. All the soldiers died from their wounds. The officer opened fire and injured several other troops, before fleeing the scene. At least eight others were injured.\n\"One individual Afghan National Policeman, possibly in conjunction with another, went rogue. His motives and whereabouts are unknown at this time,\" said a spokesperson for the UK armed forces. Authorities are still searching for a suspect.\nThree of the soldiers were from the Grenadier Guards while the other two were from the Royal Military Police. They had been living with the police in a compound.\nThis raised the death toll of British troops killed in Afghanistan to 229 this year, the highest in any year since the 1982 Falklands War. Lt. Col. David Wakefield expressed his deepest sadness at the deaths. \"Five British soldiers, five of our own, shot down in the course of their duty. They will not be forgotten,\" he said. \nBritish Prime Minister, Gordon Brown said,\"The death of five brave soldiers in a single incident is a terrible loss. My thoughts, condolences and sympathies go to their families, loved ones and colleagues. I know that the whole country too will mourn their loss.\""}
{"id": "143438", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143438", "title": "Afghan policeman kills five soldiers", "text": ""}
{"id": "143443", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143443", "title": "Afghan policeman shoots down five British soldiers", "text": ""}
{"id": "143445", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143445", "title": "Afghan policeman shoot and kill five British soldiers", "text": ""}
{"id": "143450", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143450", "title": "Palestinian state set to be abandoned, says Erekat", "text": "According to the chief Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erekat, Palestinians may need to abandon their goal of creating an independent state should Israel continue expanding Jewish settlements on contested land. Erekat stated it was time for Mahmoud Abbas to \"tell his people the truth, that with the continuation of settlement activities, the two-state solution is no longer an option\".\nUS Secretary of State Hillary Clinton unsuccessfully asked Abbas to negotiate with Israel in order to solve the settlement issue, saying \"[g]etting into final status negotiations will allow us to bring an end to settlement activity.\" On a visit to Cairo, Clinton mentioned that Washington wanted an end to the activities in Israel.\nErekat commented that Clinton was only leading to more settlements in the following two years.\nTo \"refocus their attention on the one-state solution where Muslims, Christians and Jews can live as equals\", Erekat said, is the only door open for the Palestinians. \"It is very serious. This is the moment of truth for us.\"\nErekat said Netanyahu told Abbas, \"Jerusalem will be the eternal and united capital of Israel, that refugees won't be discussed, that our state will be demilitarised, that we have to recognise the Jewish state, that it's not going to be the 1967 borders, that the skies will be under his control\"."}
{"id": "143451", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143451", "title": "Palestinian state set to be abandoned", "text": ""}
{"id": "143458", "revid": "1933", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143458", "title": "Article/143365/Equatorial Guinea coup plotters pardoned, released from jail", "text": ""}
{"id": "143459", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143459", "title": "Political fallout from the sacking of Professor David Nutt gathers momentum", "text": "The political fallout from the sacking of Professor David Nutt as chairman of the United Kingdom's Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) by Home Secretary Alan Johnson on Friday is gathering momentum. \nProfessor Nutt recently pointed out during the course of a lecture that a number of socially and legally proscribed drugs, amongst them cannabis, on most objective criteria of risk assessment are less dangerous than a number of other drugs, notably tobacco and alcohol. Alan Johnston took exception to this.\nIn his letter dismissing Professor Nutt, Johnston asserted \"He was asked to go because he cannot be both a government adviser and a campaigner against government policy.\" An article was subsequently published in the online edition of The Times arguing that Professor Nutt's lecture appeared to conform to government guidelines throughout. \nTwo other members of the AMCD, Dr Les King and Marion Walter, have already resigned in protest at the sacking and it is likely that further resignations will follow. Cracks within the ruling Labour Party cabinet have also appeared, with Science Minister Lord Drayson saying that he had been \"pretty appalled\" by the decision.\nA Facebook group in support of Professor Nutt has already gathered more than 17,000 members. A public demonstration in support of Professor Nutt is planned for Saturday to take place outside Downing Street."}
{"id": "143464", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143464", "title": "Article/32424/Polls held for US state and local elections, with incomplete GOP success", "text": ""}
{"id": "143465", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143465", "title": "Article/3473/Seventeen year old accused of raping four year old in Kherwadi, Mumbai", "text": ""}
{"id": "143466", "revid": "1933", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143466", "title": "Article/143416/Tom Menino wins historic fifth term as Mayor of Boston; plus results from area cities", "text": ""}
{"id": "143467", "revid": "1933", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143467", "title": "Article/143341/Polls held for US state and local elections, with incomplete GOP success", "text": ""}
{"id": "143468", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143468", "title": "British singer Robbie Williams announces his return to boyband Take That", "text": "British singer Robbie Williams has announced that he will be returning to boyband Take That. \nThe singer made the announcement during an interview with Jonathan Ross on Friday Night with Jonathan Ross, which is due to be aired on BBC One on Friday. Robbie has been quoted as saying, \"We've got together, done bits and bobs.\" In response to a question about whether he would be appearing with the rest of Take That on stage in the future, Robbie said: \"I can't say much but, yes, I hope so.\"\nTake That originated in Manchester, England in 1990. The group disbanded in 1996, but reformed in 2005 without Robbie in it.\nDuring the interview with Ross, Williams also revealed that he has made plans to have children with his girlfriend. \"I thought I was going to be a bachelor,\" he said. \"I was introduced to Ayda [Field] and things just changed. She's a wonderful person and I'm in love. She's really broody and I'm getting there.\" \nRobbie also spoke of his performance on the BBC Electric Proms on October 20, and the pressure that he suffered from. \"I've always been very nervous [performing for] 80,000 people, it's an unnatural thing to do. You don't know what's going on in my head. It's traumatic, really scary. I ended up in rehab again. It was, 'What are you doing to yourself?' I thought it was time to break the cycle. I've taken the pressure off myself, it's a part-time gig these days. The missus keeps me grounded. There's no need to take myself out of my mind any more.\"\nRobbie Williams recently made a live performance on The X Factor, a UK televised singing competition. The singer denied allegations that he is taking drugs. \"I get incredibly nervous,\" he commented. \"It wasn't drugs or drink, just deer in the headlights.\""}
{"id": "143469", "revid": "1933", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143469", "title": "Article/143362/Sierra Leone rebel convicts sent to Rwandan jail", "text": ""}
{"id": "143471", "revid": "1933", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143471", "title": "Article/68818/French structuralist Claude L\u00e9vi-Strauss dies at age 100", "text": ""}
{"id": "143472", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143472", "title": "Tropical Storm Mirinae kills 90 in Vietnam", "text": "Vietnamese media reported on Wednesday that at least 90 people have been killed after Tropical Storm Mirinae passed through the country. Another 22 people were reported to be missing.\nAccording to Vietnam News, the storm completely destroyed 154 houses, damaged 2,500 others, and flooded 1,800 hectares of farmland. Some dikes in the Phu Yen province were overloaded with water, further exacerbating the damage.\nAround 2,000 soldiers were dispatched to assist with rescue efforts, and local authorities had asked for food aid from the government.\nThe Vietnamese disaster committee said that \"it's the most devastating flooding in more than 30 years in Phu Yen.\"\nTwo people were also killed by Mirinae in neigbouring Cambodia, and a further 27 in the Philippines."}
{"id": "143473", "revid": "1933", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143473", "title": "Article/143378/Staffordshire hoard goes on display in British Museum in London, England", "text": ""}
{"id": "143475", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143475", "title": "Tropical storm Mirinae kills 90 in Vietnam", "text": ""}
{"id": "143478", "revid": "1933", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143478", "title": "Article/143314/Scientology website hacked", "text": ""}
{"id": "143480", "revid": "18761", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143480", "title": "Automaker GM to cut 10,000 jobs at Opel", "text": "The US car manufacturer General Motors said that it would axe 10,000 jobs at its European division, Opel. According to the company's vice president John Smith, the firm wanted to reduce costs at Opel by 30%.\nSmith announced the company's move on Wednesday. He didn't say where the cuts were going to take place, but wanted to present details of the plan to European governments \"very soon\".\nA day before the announcement, GM said it was cancelling a deal to sell Opel to Magna, a Canadian automobile parts company.\nPoliticians in Germany expressed disappointment at GM's cancellation of the Magna deal, which the country's government had favoured. \"[GM's] behaviour towards Germany is completely unacceptable,\" said German economy minister Rainer Bruederle.\nThe premier of the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia remarked that \"General Motors' behaviour shows the ugly face of turbo-capitalism. That is completely unacceptable.\"\nThe UK government, however, welcomed the firm's decision. \"It is the best decision for Britain and our plants,\" said the general secretary of the British union Unite, Tony Woodley. \"I am absolutely delighted that General Motors have finally done the right thing for them and for us,\" he told the BBC.\nAbout 54,000 people are employed by Opel, about 25,000 of them in Germany."}
{"id": "143481", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143481", "title": "Italian judge convicts 23 in CIA kidnapping case", "text": "An Italian judge has convicted 23 people from the US of kidnapping an Egyptian cleric from Milan in 2003. The landmark case is the first involving the CIA's controversial \"extraordinary rendition\" program.\nThe judge sentenced the CIA's Milan station chief at the time, Robert Seldon Lady, to eight years in prison on Wednesday, and the 22 others to five years. All of the suspects were tried in absentia, and are not in custody.\nThe judge also gave three-year prison sentences to two Italians involved in the kidnapping. Three other American defendants and five Italians, including Italy's former military intelligence chief, were acquitted.\nProsecutors charged that the Egyptian cleric, suspected terrorist Osama Moustafa Hassan Nasr (also known as Abu Omar), was abducted from a Milan street and sent to Egypt, where he was repeatedly tortured.\nThe Italian government has denied any role in the renditions program, which was approved by the administration of former US president George W. Bush.\n\"Extraordinary rendition,\" as practiced by the CIA, involved secretly transferring terror suspects between countries, placing them in locations where they could be intensively interrogated. \nHuman-rights groups charge that renditions were the CIA's way of relocating prisoners extrajudicially to places where they faced torture during interrogation. However, Bush said repeatedly that U.S. operatives did not transfer prisoners to countries known to practice torture."}
{"id": "143484", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143484", "title": "Article/143468/British singer Robbie Williams announces his return to boyband Take That", "text": ""}
{"id": "143490", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143490", "title": "Local community on Australian Sunshine Coast compromises with McDonald's", "text": "Residents of the suburb of Minyama, Australia have come to a compromise with restaurant chain McDonald's.\nA 24 hour store was planned for the suburb but the fast food giant backed down agreeing that the store will only open overnight on Fridays and Saturdays. Every other day it will be open from five in the morning to eleven at night.\nAs part of the compromise, a walkway connecting the suburb's main road to the residential area near the new McDonald's has been closed off. \"They will all be restricted to Nicklin Way,\" said John Meyer-Gleaves, a spokesperson for protest group Say No To McDonald's, referring to late night customers.\nThe group also managed to get a higher wall placed between the store and the residential area to cut noise and light pollution.\nIn December, Sunshine Coast Regional Council knocked backed the then-proposed store with mayor Bob Abbot expressing concern about its proximity to a residential area.\n\"I'm pretty sure I'm the only councillor who already has a 24-hour McDonald's in my division, we have enough issues with that one, and this is overkill,\u201d Councillor Chris Thompson, Division 4 in the Sunshine Coast Regional Council, had said about a 24 hour seven day a week store at Minyama.\nThe 24-hour McDonald's in Councillor Thompson's division, Mooloolaba, is part of a larger complex and does not back onto residential premises."}
{"id": "143491", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143491", "title": "Article/143480/Automaker GM to cut 10,000 jobs at Opel", "text": ""}
{"id": "143493", "revid": "140191", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143493", "title": "Article/143481/Italian judge convicts 23 in CIA kidnapping case", "text": ""}
{"id": "143498", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143498", "title": "Toyota quits Formula One", "text": "Akio Toyoda, the President and Representative Director of Toyota, made a statement on Wednesday that the company is leaving the Formula One championship before the 2010 season. The primary factor behind this decision was said to be the current economic environment in the midterm perspective.\nPanasonic Toyota Racing did not manage to ever win a Formula One race, winning only 13 podium and 278.5 points since 2002. Toyota will still be present in a number of racing series, including Formula Nippon, Formula Three, Super GT and NASCAR.\nAnother major Japanese automotive giant, Honda, quit Formula One prior to this season and sold the team to Ross Brawn. The renewed team Brawn GP with Mercedes-Benz engined cars won the 2009 Constructors' Championship recently.\nOther Japanese companies Subaru and Suzuki withdrew from the World Rally Championship prior to this season and Kawasaki pulled out of MotoGP.\nThe space cleared by Toyota may be now used by the BMW Sauber team's possible successor if BMW can reach an agreement to sell the team after their decision to quit Formula One earlier this year. Toyota drivers of this season Jarno Trulli and Timo Glock, as well as the Japanese rookie driver Kamui Kobayashi, could now look for seats in other teams for 2010 including the new entries US F1, Campos, Manor or Lotus."}
{"id": "143499", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143499", "title": "New book Blown for Good reveals details inside Scientology headquarters", "text": "A new book released today by author Marc Headley, \"Blown for Good\", reveals details inside Scientology headquarters at the organization's \"Gold Base\", located near Hemet, California. Headley joined the organization at age seven when his mother became a member, and worked at Scientology's International Management Headquarters for several years before leaving in 2005.\nWhile an employee of the Scientology headquarters located in Riverside County, California, Headley had the experience of practicing Scientology counseling services called \"auditing\" with Scientologist Tom Cruise, shortly after the actor had completed work on the film \"Days of Thunder\". In 1990, Cruise was training to become proficient in the Scientology auditing techniques, and Headley was selected to become the actor's auditing partner. Though a young actor at the age of 28, Cruise was already known for his work on films including \"Top Gun\" and \"Born on the Fourth of July\". Headley writes in the book that he was chosen to work with Cruise because he had not yet progressed in Scientology levels, and because he was seen as a low security risk due to his young age at the time. Headley writes that he worked with Cruise for hours and hours each day, for a period of three weeks, on Scientology techniques called \"Training Routines\".\nThe book provides details of what life was like for the author inside the organization's headquarters. The inner flap of the book includes a map of the \"International Headquarters of Scientology; Gilman Hot Springs, California\". Headley writes that under the direction of Scientology leader David Miscavige, employees who signed billion-year contracts routinely put in 100-hour weeks of work for minimal pay. According to Headley, possible discipline faced by the Scientology employees for perceived mistakes included being separated from family as part of the Scientology policy of \"disconnection\", being declared a \"suppressive person\", or being sent to the \"Rehabilitation Project Force\", a program where Scientologists were assigned harsh labor.\nHeadley's tasks while working at the Scientology compound Gold Base included dealing with audiovisual equipment used for organization presentations and speeches by Miscavige, and supervising production of thousands of audiotapes of lectures given by Scientology's founder L. Ron Hubbard. From 1989 to 2005 Headley worked at the Scientology film production studio on scripts for movies which would be used to instruct new members of the organization on its practices. He faced repercussions from Miscavige if he could not meet production quotas. Headley asserts that he was physically abused by Miscavige, a claim made previously by other former Scientology officials in a series of investigative articles published in the \"St. Petersburg Times\".\nThe book gives background on a 9-minute long video of Tom Cruise, leaked to the Internet in January 2008, that featured the actor discussing his views on Scientology. The Church of Scientology's attempts to remove the leaked video from the Internet motivated the group Anonymous to focus its efforts against the organization. Headley writes that initially the promotional video about Cruise was supposed to feature celebrities including Will Smith speaking about the actor, but Miscavige instead insisted Cruise should simply talk about himself. \nHeadley describes a form of Miscavige's management previously related in the \"St. Petersburg Times\", where the Scientology leader made his staff play musical chairs to the \"Queen\" song \"Bohemian Rhapsody\". Miscavige told 70 Scientology executives that they were to compete for chairs, and that only the last individual left after several rounds would remain at the compound, while the other executives would be assigned to remote locations. After a dramatic competition with multiple staffers in tears that they would be separated from their families, Miscavige stated no one would be removed from the compound.\nIn 2005, Headley left the Scientology compound in Hemet on a motorcycle, and fell off his vehicle after being chased by Scientology security guards. Riverside County police helped Headley escape from the Scientology security. Headley traveled to Kansas City to meet his father. He was later joined by his wife Claire who had also worked at the Gold Base compound.\nHeadley filed suit against Scientology in January 2009. In the legal case, he asserts that Scientology violated United States labor law with regard to his treatment while an employee of the organization. Headley and his lawyer Barry Van Sickle succeeded against attempts by the organization to get the suit dismissed. Headley's lawsuit is set to begin in U.S. federal court in November 2010.\nAmerican talk radio hosts John Kobylt and Ken Chiampou discussed the book Wednesday on their program \"The John and Ken Show\" on KFI. \"This is, the Scientology cult, is I guarantee you, a thousand times more bizarre than you could have ever imagined. And what these celebrities do, like Tom Cruise, is a thousand times more strange than you could ever imagine. I have never read about behavior like this in my life, I can't imagine it. It's really weird,\" commented one of the hosts about material revealed by Headley in the book. Headley writes in the book that he started to question his involvement in Scientology when secretly listening to \"The John and Ken Show\" and watching Conan O'Brien make fun of Scientology celebrities. \"The National Enquirer\" reported on the release of \"Blown for Good\", calling it an \"explosive new book\".\nThe book was reviewed Wednesday by the Editor in chief of \"The Village Voice\", Tony Ortega, who characterized it as a \"remarkable account\". \"Headley's book also provides stunning material that has rarely been collected in one place, even with the Internet's deep resources on L. Ron Hubbard's strange creation. Headley's story provides a damning account of life working for Scientology leader David Miscavige at the secretive desert base\", wrote Ortega in the review. He commented, \"Perhaps the best service that Headley provides with \"Blown for Good\" is giving non-Scientologists the sense of what it's really like to work, day in and day out, in such a strange organization, from the lowliest laborer mucking out excrement in a Gold Base pond (Headley says shit was coming out of his ears and pores for days) to what kind of luxuries the celebrities and high-ranking members enjoy.\""}
{"id": "143504", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143504", "title": "Article/143499/New book Blown for Good reveals details inside Scientology headquarters", "text": ""}
{"id": "143506", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143506", "title": "Article/143459/Political fallout from the sacking of Professor David Nutt gathers momentum", "text": ""}
{"id": "143521", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143521", "title": "Article/143320/New ocean forming in African desert", "text": ""}
{"id": "143524", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143524", "title": "India doubles Commonwealth Games budget", "text": "The Indian government has raised the budget of the 2010 New Delhi Commonwealth Games from Rs. 767 crore ($163 million) to Rs. 1,620 crore ($344 million). The decision was made at a meeting of the cabinet led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in New Delhi.\nAmbika Soni, the Information and Broadcasting Minister stated, \"The cabinet approved the proposal of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports for providing a revised budget of Rs. 1,620 crore, as loan to the Organising Committee (OC) of the Commonwealth Games, 2010, at the prevailing government rate of interest.\"\nAccording to the Minister, the organizing board hoped that to generate a net income of approximately Rs. 1,708 crore.\n\"The components of rent for organising headquarters, technology which were practically nil in the initial budget, are now around Rs. 175 crore and Rs. 200 crore respectively. These have also contributed substantially to the (budget) increase\", said the Minister when asked about the reason for the hike. Sponsorships, TV rights and ticketing were other factors influencing the change.\nAlongside this, the Queen's Baton Relay will now encompass all the 70 Commonwealth Games Association nations. \nIn the international leg, the number of days has been increased to 240 from the previously approved 136 days while on the domestic leg, there has been an increase from 60 days to 100 days.\n\"The number of volunteers has also gone up to nearly 30,000 and hence the cost of accreditation, catering, uniform, on this account has increased,\" said Soni."}
{"id": "143525", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143525", "title": "Article/143524/India doubles Commonwealth Games budget", "text": ""}
{"id": "143527", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143527", "title": "Toyota quits F1", "text": ""}
{"id": "143528", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143528", "title": "Manmohan Singh", "text": ""}
{"id": "143529", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143529", "title": "Article/143498/Toyota quits Formula One", "text": ""}
{"id": "143531", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143531", "title": "New Delhi", "text": ""}
{"id": "143535", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143535", "title": "Lord Burns confirmed as new chairman of Channel 4", "text": "Lord Terence Burns has been confirmed as the new chairman of British television channel Channel 4.\nBurns, who was the Permanent Secretary to the Treasury from 1991 to 1998, will take the position on January 24, 2010. He will replace the former chairman, Luke Johnson, who is now retiring. Luke was chairman of Channel 4 since early 2004. \nLord Burns will also immediately take the position to try and find a new chief executive alongside Luke Johnson, after it was announced that the current chief executive Andy Duncan was to retire after being in the position for five years. Speaking about joining the corporation for the channel, Burns said: \"I am delighted to be joining Channel 4. This is a time of great change as we experience the impact of the rapid development of digital technology in the communications sector and Channel 4 has a very special and continuing role to play.\"\nColette Bowe is the current chairman of Office of Communications, or Ofcom, an independent regulator and competition authority for the communication industries in the United Kingdom. Speaking about this announcement, Bowe said: \"He [Lord Burns] has an outstanding record of public service and a real depth of commercial expertise. He will provide strong leadership at a time of considerable change in the broadcasting world. I would also like to pay tribute to Luke Johnson\u2019s tremendous contribution to Channel 4 in a period during which it has enjoyed considerable success.\""}
{"id": "143537", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143537", "title": "Former Formula 1 designer unveils new electric car", "text": "Former Formula One McLaren designer Gordon Murray has unveiled a new all-electric car.\nThe car model, which is known as the T.27, is due to be developed over the course of the next 16 months with four prototypes. The process that will be used during the course of the manufacturing of the vehicle is called iStream. The technology iStream had been invented by Gordon Murray in 1999 and means that all the parts are designed using a computer.\nThe project has approximately received \u00a39,000,000 (US$14,919,000) in investment. The electric car is designed for urban purposes, such as in cities or towns. The weight of the vehicle is just 600 kilograms. It has the ability to travel at speeds of up to 60 miles per hour and can go for a maximum of 100 miles between recharges.\nThe designer thinks that motorists will some day be travelling in vehicles like this. Murray believes that the new car will be 'the most efficient electric vehicle on earth'."}
{"id": "143538", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143538", "title": "Palestinian president Abbas has &quot;no desire&quot; to seek reelection", "text": "Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has said that he has \"no desire\" of running for re-election in a presidential vote he has called for January.\nIn a televised address on Thursday, Abbas said his declaration is not up for debate or bargaining. Senior members of Abbas' Fatah party have been trying to persuade him to change his mind and take part in the election.\n\"I have told our brethren in the PLO [Palestine Liberation Organisation] ... that I have no desire to run in the forthcoming election,\" he said. \"This decision is not a kind of compromise or a manoeuvre.\"\nAbbas expressed frustration with the lack of progress in the peace process with Israel. He has threatened to step down in the past as a negotiating tactic. The Palestinian president said his goal of a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict faces serious problems, but added he believed that it still remains possible.\nAbbas has called for parliamentary and presidential elections to be held in the West Bank, where he is based, and in the Gaza Strip. But it not clear if the elections can proceed without the cooperation of Hamas, which is in control of Gaza.\n\"Since Oslo agreements in 1993, all these agreements are based on land and on peace and an end to Israel occupation of 1967. We've pledged with Israel to reach a two-state solution but month after month we've seen nothing but complacency and procrastination,\" he said.\nIn his address, Abbas criticised Hamas for refusing to sign a reconciliation agreement with Fatah mediated by Egypt. He called on the group to act in the national interest. Hamas won parliamentary elections in Gaza in 2006, and seized control of the territory a year later.\nPalestinian officials said Mr. Abbas is upset with Washington for not putting more pressure on Israel to freeze Jewish settlement construction in the West Bank and east Jerusalem. The Palestinians want the land for a future state."}
{"id": "143539", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143539", "title": "Thirteen dead, several wounded in Fort Hood, Texas shooting", "text": "The United States Army has confirmed that thirteen people have been killed after a shooting rampage at the Fort Hood army base in Texas. An additional thirty are reported wounded, and the gunman is in stable condition after being shot by military police. Two other soldiers are in detention.\nThe incident took place at a deployment readiness center. According to local congressman John Carter, shooting broke out shortly before a graduation ceremony.\nThe gunman has been identified as an army officer, Major Malik Nadal Hasan. He is a mental health professional, presumably either a psychologist or psychiatrist, according to an unnamed defense official. Two other suspects were in custody, the base commander, Lieutenant-General Bob Cone, said.\n\"Our investigation is ongoing, but preliminary reports indicate that there was a single shooter,\" Cone said at a news conference. \"The shooter is not dead, but in custody in stable condition.\"\nInitial reports said that the gunman had been shot to death by military police; however, General Cone now says that the man is in custody and is in the hospital with injuries, but is in stable condition. FOX40 News in Sacramento managed to record a military spokesperson commenting on why the media wasn't informed about the status of the gunman until four hours after the initial announcement was made that he had been fatally shot. That military spokesman replied, \"the doctors didn't know who they were working on.\"\nWhen asked at the conference whether Hasan's attack might have been a terrorist act, General Cone replied that \"I couldn't rule that out, but I'm telling you that right now the evidence does not suggest that.\"\nIt is not currently clear if those killed and wounded are civilian or military. The gunman is reported to have been in uniform and using handguns. Eyewitnesses claim at least one man was armed with a high-power sniper rifle. The chief of media at the base, Christopher Hogue, said to reporters that \"the only one we know who was shooting was killed and he had two handguns.\"\nThere may have been other people involved in the shooting, however. \"We [...] have apprehended two additional soldiers that are suspects. There were eyewitness accounts that there may have been more than one shooter,\" General Cone said.\nThe Killeen Independent School District said that all schools in the area were placed on lockdown. The base was closed down following the incident as well. \"Effective immediately Fort Hood is closed,\" a statement on the Fort Hood website read. \"This is not a Drill. It is an Emergency Situation.\" The website appears to have gone down shortly after the announcement.\nA serviceman at the base described his experiences to the BBC. \"I heard the emergency announcement over the speakers outside and saw people rushing to get indoors. In our office we're okay but we're hearing about the deaths. [...] We are still on lockdown. I am hearing that at least nine people may be dead.\"\nGreg Schannep, a retired colonel, was heading to the 2 P.M. graduation ceremony when he heard gunshots and saw an injured soldier run past him. \"Initially, I thought it was a training exercise,\" he recounted, as quoted by the New York Daily News. \"A soldier came running past me and said 'sir, there is someone shooting.' As he ran past me I saw blood on his back. I don't think he even knew he had been shot.\"\n\"It's chaotic,\" said the director of a local coffee shop near the base, as quoted by the Associated Press. \"They're just saying that they're under attack they don't know what's going on. [...] The phones are jammed. Everybody is calling family members and friends. Soldiers are running around with M-16s.\"\nThe authorities are still gathering information about the shooting, according to Homeland Security spokeswoman Sara Kuban. \"DoD [Department of Defense], DHS [Department of Homeland Security], FBI and other members of the intelligence community are assessing and gathering facts about the shooting. Because this is early in this event, we cannot at this time confirm motives behind these shootings,\" she said.\nThe Scott &amp; White Memorial Hospital in the town of Temple received ten of the injured victims from the attack. Its website has posted an appeal for blood donations. \"Due to the recent events on Fort Hood, we are in URGENT need of ALL blood types,\" it said. The hospital received 200 blood donations since 2:45 P.M. local time.\nThe hospital was soon closed to visitors after the wounded people were received. \"[We are] no longer open to visitors as we focus our attention upon the victims and their families,\" a statement on the website said. The associate system chief medical officer said that they did not have specific information on their conditions. \"We get patients like this, but not usually all at once,\" said director Glen Couchman.\nAnother health facility, the Metroplex Adventist Hospital, received seven other victims. The hospital stated that one of them was soon pronounced dead, and two others, including an EMS paramedic, are in surgery.\nFort Hood is situated in the town of Killeen. It is the largest military base in the world, houses around 40,000 US troops, and is about 100 kilometres (60 miles) north of Austin. It has been compared to a small town, with its own schools, convenience stores, and even two museums.\nThis is not the first time Killen has witnessed a shooting spree. The town was the site of the worst shooting spree in American history until the Virginia Tech massacre, when on October 16, 1991, George Jo Hennard drove his truck through the front window of Luby's Cafeteria and proceeded to shoot and kill 23 people and wound another 20, before commiting suicide in what is know as the Luby's massacre. It should be noted Major Hasan is an alumnus of Virginia Tech.\nGunman's motives and background.\nHasan's motives for the shooting spree were not immediately clear, however, Texas Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison told the FOX news agency that \"I do know that he has been known to have told people that he was upset about going [to Iraq].\"\nA cousin of the gunman, Nader Hasan, told FOX that his cousin had been ordered to deploy to Iraq, but was unwilling to do so. \"We've known over the last five years that was probably his worst nightmare,\" he said.\nAccording to Nader, Nidal is a US-born Muslim who had joined the military after finishing high school, and was a graduate of Virginia Tech, where he received a bachelor\u2019s degree in biochemistry. He was also a member of the ROTC, and used to be a psychiatrist at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C.\n\"He was a psychiatrist at Walter Reed dealing with the people coming back and [...] trying to help them with their trauma,\" Nader said.\nRetired colonel Terry Lee told FOX that \"[Hasan] said maybe Muslims should stand up and fight against the aggressor. At first we thought he meant help the armed forces, but apparently that wasn't the case. Other times he would make comments we shouldn't be in the war in the first place.\"\nSecurity officials said that some Internet postings made half a year ago, discussing suicide bombings and other forms of violence, appeared to have been posted by Hasan, but this has not been officially confirmed.\n\"Isolated incident\".\nSome army bases around the US increased security measures following the attacks. \"The bottom line for us is that we are increasing security at our gates because the threat hasn't yet been defined, and we're reminding our Marines to be vigilant in their areas of responsibility,\" said the public affairs officer for the Marine Corps Air Station in Yuma, Arizona, Captain Rob Dolan.\nHowever, a spokesman for the Department of Defense said that the attack appeared to be an isolated incident. \"This is an isolated and tragic case and we're obviously in the process of obtaining more information as the events unfold,\" said Lieutenant Colonel Eric Butterbaugh.\n\"We don\u2019t have reason to believe that this is anything other than an isolated incident,\" an army spokesman from Fort Lewis in the state of Washington, Joe Piek, commented. \"We don\u2019t normally discuss security operations at the post anyways, but I am sure this is something that our security law enforcement will be reviewing. As we are watching and listening, there is a lot we don't know.\"\nResponse.\nPresident Barack Obama described the incident as \"a horrific outburst of violence\" in a press conference in Washington D.C., going on to say, \"It is difficult enough when we lose these brave men and women abroad, but it is horrifying that they should come under fire at an army base on US soil. [...] We will make sure that we get answers to every single question about this horrible incident. We are going to stay on this.\"\nTexas Senator Hutchison released a statement regarding the incident. \"I am shocked and saddened by today's outburst of violence at Fort Hood that has cost seven of our brave service members their lives and has gravely injured others. My heart goes out to their loved ones,\" she said.\n\"Our dedicated military personnel have sacrificed so much in service to our country, and it sickens me that the men and women of Fort Hood have been subjected to this senseless, random violence. I know all Americans share this concern for the soldiers and their families who are affected by this tragedy,\" the statement continued.\nRobert Gates, the Defense Secretary, expressed his sympathy to those affected by the attack. \"I can pledge that the Department of Defense will do everything in its power to help the Fort Hood community get through these difficult times,\" he said in a statement.\nVice President Joe Biden also offered his condolences. \"We are all praying for those who were wounded and hoping for their full and speedy recovery. Our thoughts and prayers are also with the entire Fort Hood community as they deal with this senseless tragedy,\" he remarked.\n\"I was saddened to learn of the tragic incident at Fort Hood. Laura and I are keeping the victims and their families in our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time,\" wrote former president George W. Bush in a statement from his office in Dallas.\nThe state's governor, Rick Perry, ordered all flags in Texas to be flown at half-staff until Sunday. \"[I am] keeping those affected by today's incidents in our thoughts and prayers,\" he said.\nThe junior senator from Texas, John Cornyn, also issued a statement. \"My heart goes out to the victims of the tragedy that occurred today at Fort Hood, as well as their families. Fort Hood is one of our nation's finest and largest military installations, and a place that has long been a source of pride for Texans, and for all Americans who value the selfless service and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform,\" the statement read.\n\"It is imperative that we take the time to gather all the facts, as it would be irresponsible to be the source of rumors or inaccurate information regarding such a horrific event. Once we have ascertained all the facts, working with our military leaders and law enforcement officials on the ground, we can determine what exactly happened at Fort Hood today and how to prevent something like this from ever happening again.\""}
{"id": "143540", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143540", "title": "At least seven people shot dead at US army base", "text": ""}
{"id": "143542", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143542", "title": "Article/143539/Several people reported to have been shot dead at US army base", "text": ""}
{"id": "143546", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143546", "title": "Article/143535/Lord Burns confirmed as new chairman of Channel 4", "text": ""}
{"id": "143549", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143549", "title": "Article/143538/Palestinian president Abbas has &quot;no desire&quot; to seek reelection", "text": ""}
{"id": "143551", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143551", "title": "Several people reported to have been shot dead at US army base", "text": ""}
{"id": "143553", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143553", "title": "Seven people shot dead at Fort Hood army base, Texas", "text": ""}
{"id": "143555", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143555", "title": "Several people shot dead at Fort Hood army base, Texas", "text": ""}
{"id": "143561", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143561", "title": "12 dead and more wounded in Fort Hood, Texas shooting", "text": ""}
{"id": "143566", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143566", "title": "Palestinian state set to be abandoned says Erekat", "text": ""}
{"id": "143568", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143568", "title": "Saudi Arabia resumes livestock trade with Somalia", "text": "The government of Saudi Arabia removed an eleven-year ban on livestock imports from Somalia after fears of were allayed, senior Somali officials said on Thursday.\nThe decision was well received across Somalia, as hundreds of thousands of farmers heavily rely on animal exports to the oil-rich Middle East. Under the new arrangement, Saudi officials will closely examine animals before they are shipped off to Saudi soil.\n\"This is a tremendous decision for Somalis across the ,\" said Idiris Ibrahim Abdi, the livestock minister of Somaliland, the self-declared republic in northern Somalia, which has developed one of the most sophisticated animal processing plants in its port town of .\nAccording to news accounts, the Saudi agricultural ministry said the decision is based on years of cross-examination and monitoring of animal farms in Somalia.\nAnimal trade is one of the few surviving economic engines of Somalia's largely destroyed economy. Business leaders and animal farmers have largely welcomed the Saudi decision.\n\"This decision will allow me to triple my animal sales to shipping companies,\" said Mohamed Hassan Kahde, an animal farmer in the central town of .\nAn official with the Meat Processing Authority told the Voice of America news agency that they expect to export more than half a million heads of goats and cows to Saudi Arabia in time for the , the annual pilgrimage, which will be performed by early December."}
{"id": "143571", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143571", "title": "Article/143490/Local community on Australian Sunshine Coast comprmises with McDonalds", "text": ""}
{"id": "143572", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143572", "title": "Prospects for a space elevator rise", "text": "During a NASA competition, a group of researchers managed to create a robot, powered by a ground based laser, to climb a cable 1 kilometer high dangling from a helicopter.\nThe contest winners will receive US$2 million for inventing a functioning robot which climbs to the set height in a reasonable amount of time. \nThe competition took place in the Mojave desert at NASA's Dryden Flight Research Center on Edwards Air Force Base, and teams from Missouri, Alaska, and Seattle competed for the prize. It was held to further the research on technology capable of making the 22,000 mile journey into outer space.\nThe laws of physics are playing against the researchers. The cost of implementing a project where these laws could be handled and orbit achieved is very high: an estimated $22 Billion. Although a working space elevator is a futuristic idea, the projects used in the research today could potentially create such an elevator.\nA team from Seattle was announced as the second place winner, winning $990,000 in prize money. They did not earn the full $2 million because they were unable to achieve the required speeds. Despite their research, none of the teams were able to get their robots to the top."}
{"id": "143573", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143573", "title": "Local community on Australian Sunshine Coast comprmises with McDonalds", "text": ""}
{"id": "143582", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143582", "title": "Stolen minibus recovered 35 years after theft", "text": "A 1965 Volkswagen minibus that was stolen in 1974 has been recovered by customs agents in Los Angeles. The vintage minibus was in pristine condition, valued at $25,000, and was found during a routine inspection of a shipping container scheduled for departure to The Netherlands. A routine computer database search on its vehicle identification number flagged it as having been stolen from a vehicle upholstery shop in Spokane, Washington on July 12, 1974. A custom restoration business in Arizona was attempting to deliver it to overseas clients last month when authorities intercepted the vehicle.\nThe theft appeared on the National Insurance Crime Bureau database, which is used by border authorities and contains all stolen vehicle records. Most police databases remove unsolved vehicle thefts after five years.\nThe California Highway Patrol does not suspect the restorer of wrongdoing, according to investigating officer Mike Maleta. Possession of the vehicle apparently changed several times. Police in Spokane have not yet located the rightful owner, whose identity has not been released to the press. Maleta hopes that a trail of registration documents and interviews will uncover the thief.\nThe Allstate insurance company paid $2500 shortly after the theft occurred and wants to take possession of the vintage minibus. Allstate spokeswoman Megan Brunet expects that after the necessary paperwork is processed the firm will sell it at auction."}
{"id": "143584", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143584", "title": "Article/143582/Stolen minibus recovered 35 years after theft", "text": ""}
{"id": "143588", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143588", "title": "35 feared Dead in Himachal, India bus mishap", "text": ""}
{"id": "143590", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143590", "title": "22 killed after bus falls into gorge in northern India", "text": "22 passengers were killed when a bus rolled down into a deep gorge near Mahua Dabra Haripura of the Kangra district in northern India this morning. 42 more people were injured.\nThe bus driver lost control of the bus and fell into a hundred-foot-deep gorge 45\u00a0km away from Dharmsala, Himachal Pradesh. The bus, which was reported to have been overcrowded, was headed from Dehra to Nagota Suriyan.\nThe wounded passengers have been admitted to the Dr. Rajendra Prasad government medical college in Tanda by a rescue team. Senior civil police and officers are overseeing rescue efforts."}
{"id": "143592", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143592", "title": "22 passangers killed when bus falls into gorge in Himachal Pradesh", "text": ""}
{"id": "143597", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143597", "title": "22 passengers killed when bus falls into gorge in Himachal Pradesh", "text": ""}
{"id": "143598", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143598", "title": "Article/143590/22 killed after bus falls into gorge in northern India", "text": ""}
{"id": "143601", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143601", "title": "Article/143568/Saudi Arabia resumes livestock trade with Somalia", "text": ""}
{"id": "143602", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143602", "title": "Hurricane Ida comes ashore in Nicaragua", "text": "United States weather forecasters say Hurricane Ida, the eleventh storm of the 2009 season, has made landfall in the Central American nation of Nicaragua.\nIn a 10 am EST advisory on Thursday, the US National Hurricane Center in Miami, Florida says Ida came ashore in southeastern Nicaragua off the Caribbean Sea and is moving slowly to the northwest.\nIda's winds had reached 75 mph early on Thursday, making it a Category 1 hurricane \u2013 the lowest level on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, a five-level scale that measures a hurricane's intensity and potential for destruction. \nThe Nicaraguan government issued a hurricane warning for parts of the region. Thousands were forced to evacuate their homes in advance of the hurricane. Forecasters say that the cyclone could continue to produce life-threatening flash-floods and mudslides. \nAfter moving ashore, the storm has since weakened to a depression. Tropical Depression Ida is currently drifting northward, and forecasters say it could re-intensify once it emerges into the Caribbean Sea and potentially heads towards the US Gulf Coast. However, it might simply dissipate before it reaches open waters."}
{"id": "143604", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143604", "title": "Article/143602/Hurricane Ida comes ashore in Nicaragua", "text": ""}
{"id": "143607", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143607", "title": "US unemployment rate surpasses 10%", "text": "The unemployment rate in the United States has surpassed ten percent, according to figures released by the US Department of Labor on Friday.\nThe jobless rate, now at 10.2%, is the highest it has been since April 1983, and was an increase over September's level of 9.8%. 190,000 jobs in total were lost last month, and 8.2 million total people have become unemployed since the recession officially began in December 2007.\n\"It's pretty disappointing overall. Job losses are not moderating as quickly as I had hoped despite those earlier indicators on jobs,\" economic analyst Richard Franulovich at the Westpac financial services company said.\nSome economists say the jobless rate could reach 10.5% next year because employers are still reluctant to hire. Economist James Shugg predicted the weakness in the US job market is expected to continue.\n\"It is a lot easier for firms to make the decision not to lay someone off than it is actually to decide to take someone on,\" Shugg said. \"I think we are still at that point, the firms are getting less aggressive in terms of job cutting. But putting people on is still a little way to come yet.\"\nDespite the news, most analysts have said that this is an improvement in a way, as the rate of job losses has slowed in the past year. This January, for instance, saw 741,000 job cuts. \nThe US gross domestic product also grew by 3.5% from July through September. President Barack Obama, however, suggested that the jobless rate may still continue to rise in the immediate future. \"We are just not where we need to be yet. We've got a long way to go,\" he said."}
{"id": "143608", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143608", "title": "Zimbabwe prime minister Tsvangirai ends cabinet boycott", "text": "Morgan Tsvangirai, the prime minister of Zimbabwe, said on Thursday that he was calling off his boycott of the coalition government with president Robert Mugabe. The prime minister said he was giving Mugabe and his Zanu-PF party 30 days to work on \"the pertinent issues we are concerned about\".\nTsvangirai and his Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party had pulled out of the coalition government three weeks ago, protesting what they called harassment of Mugabe opponents and accusing the president of not fulfilling the power-sharing agreement agreed to in February.\n\"We have suspended our disengagement from the GPA [Global Political Agreement] with immediate effect and we will give President Robert Mugabe 30 days to implement the agreement on the pertinent issues we are concerned about,\" Tsvangirai said. His move came after he attended a meeting in Mozambique with the Southern African Development Community."}
{"id": "143609", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143609", "title": "UN endorses Israel-Palestinian war crimes report", "text": "After two days of debate, the United Nations has overwhelmingly endorsed a report from the Human Rights Council calling for domestic investigations into alleged war crimes committed by both Israel's military and Palestinian armed forces during the Gaza conflict that began last December. \nThe controversial report concluded that Israel used disproportionate force in the war, deliberately targeted civilians, used them as human shields, and destroyed civilian infrastructure. One of the 31 chapters of the report discussed crimes by for firing rockets into Israeli towns.\nThe final vote was 114 in favor, 18 against and 44 abstentions. Strong support came from the Arab and non-aligned countries, many of whom co-sponsored the draft resolution. \nPalestinian Ambassador Riyad Mansour welcomed the vote, saying the implementation of Justice Richard Goldstone's report will now begin in stages.\nAli Treki, the General Assembly president, called the vote \"an important declaration against impunity. It is a call for justice and accountability\". Without justice, there can be no progress towards peace. A human being should be treated as a human being, regardless of his or her religion, race or nationality,\" he said.\n\"In three months we will come back to General Assembly to consider the report of the Secretary-General for further action, including in all parts of the United Nations, including in the ,\" said , a Palestinian-American diplomat.\nThe non-binding resolution requests the secretary-general report to the General Assembly within three months on the implementation of the resolution, with a view to considering further action, if necessary. \nIsrael's deputy ambassador to the UN, Daniel Cameron said that the resolution, \"endorses and legitimizes a deeply flawed, one-sided and prejudiced report of the discredited and its politicised work that bends both fact and law\".\nOf the countries abstaining or voting no, several said that although they agreed with the essence of the resolution - that the parties should conduct their own independent, credible investigations into alleged violations as called for in the Goldstone report - they could not vote in favor because they had difficulty with two specific items in the resolution. \nAnother point of some contention is that the resolution leaves the door open for future action in the UN Security Council. The Palestinians have made clear they plan to pursue that option, but most of the council's five permanent members opposed the idea, saying the right forum for the Goldstone report is in the Human Rights Council in Geneva, where it started.\nThe United States was the only permanent Security Council member to vote against the resolution. Deputy Ambassador Alejandro Wolff said that although it opposed the resolution, the US strongly supported accountability for human rights and humanitarian law violations relating to the Gaza conflict.\n\"We believe that the Goldstone report is deeply flawed-including its unbalanced focus on Israel, its sweeping conclusions of law, the excessively negative inferences it draws about Israel's intentions and actions, its failure to deal adequately with the asymmetrical nature of the Gaza conflict, its failure to assign appropriate responsibility to Hamas for its decision to base itself and its operations in heavily civilian-populated urban areas, and its many overreaching recommendations,\" said Alejandro Wolff.\nIsrael, which did not cooperate with the Goldstone commission, voted against the resolution, saying that it legitimised a \"deeply flawed, one-sided\" report, and disregarded Israel's right to defend its citizens.\n\"The results of the vote and the large number of member states who voted against or abstained, demonstrate clearly that the resolution does not have the support of the 'moral majority' of UN members,\" read a statement on the website of Israel's ministry of foreign affairs. \"Israel rejects the resolution of the UN General Assembly, which is completely detached from realities on the ground.\"\nDuring the three-week-long Israeli military incursion into the Gaza Strip, at least 1,400 Palestinians died according to Palestinians and human rights groups, although Israel says 1,166, and 13 Israelis also died. The Goldstone Commission criticized both sides for violations of international humanitarian law."}
{"id": "143610", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143610", "title": "WHO states H1N1 swine flu world's most dominant virus", "text": "The United Nations World Health Organization (WHO) stated that the H1N1 virus, more commonly known as swine flu, has become the dominant flu strain in the world.\nIn a briefing with reporters Thursday, WHO Special Pandemic Influenza Advisor Keiji Fukuda said the virus has been particularly active in the Northern Hemisphere in recent months. He added that he expects the trend to continue through the winter months, with more severe cases and even deaths.\nFukuda said the vaccine currently in use in some 20 countries around the world remains effective and safe, and that no rare or dangerous side effects have been reported.\n\"East Asia is one of the parts of the world where seasonal influenza viruses have remained in reasonably high circulation. But even in that part of the world, the pandemic virus is becoming dominant,\" Fukuda commented.\nHe noted that it was difficult to predict the activity of the virus. \"We really are not going to know what the future is going to bring, and so the main focus of our effort here is [...] what steps are needed to make sure countries are as prepared as possible to deal with disease levels,\" he said.\nThe H1N1 virus differs from the normal seasonal flu in that it has persisted during the summer months and affected relatively healthy people under the age of 65. The WHO says most people recover without hospitalization, although Fuduka pointed out that people with severe health complications and pregnant women were most at risk.\nThe World Health Organization has declared the swine flu outbreak a pandemic. As of October 25, 2009, the WHO says there have been more than 440,000 laboratory confirmed cases of H1N1 influenza and more than 5,700 deaths reported to the UN agency."}
{"id": "143611", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143611", "title": "World Health Organization", "text": ""}
{"id": "143612", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143612", "title": "Two NATO soldiers reported missing in Afghanistan, search underway", "text": "The NATO-led force in Afghanistan issued a statement on Friday saying that that two of its troops went missing on Wednesday while on a routine supply mission.\nThe statement said a search operation is under way, but did not give many details. A NATO press officer said that \"We continue exhaustive search and rescue operations to locate our missing service members. We are doing everything we can to find them.\"\nLocal police said that the soldiers were likely swept away by a river in Badghis, a western province, while they were trying to get to an airdropped food parcel that had fallen into the river. Officials said it was not likely that they were taken captive.\n\"The families of these service members have been notified about their loved ones' status and we will continue to keep them informed as information becomes available,\" a press officer said."}
{"id": "143613", "revid": "26321", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143613", "title": "Twelve dead, several wounded in Fort Hood, Texas shooting", "text": ""}
{"id": "143621", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143621", "title": "Article/143612/Two NATO soldiers reported missing in Afghanistan, search underway", "text": ""}
{"id": "143622", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143622", "title": "Shooting rampage in Orlando, Florida leaves one dead, seven injured", "text": "At least one person was killed after a shooting rampage at the Gateway Center office building in Orlando, Florida, at around 11.30 EST (16.30 UTC), according to authorities.\nThe gunman, who has been identified as Jason Rodriguez, aged 40, surrendered at his mother's house, after police received reports that he had fled there. He is now in custody. He was described as wearing a light blue polo shirt and jeans. The building where the incident occurred was locked down, and police officers evacuated the building.\nA resident living near the house where Rodriguez was arrested witnessed the police confront the gunman. \"I just heard screaming. They [the police] said, Come out with your hands in the air. He didn't resist,\" he said, as quoted by the Los Angeles Times.\nBarbara Jones said that Rodriguez used to work at the building. \"I would consider him armed and dangerous,\" she said, as quoted by the Press Association news agency.\n\"This is a tragedy no doubt about it, especially on the heels of the tragedy in Fort Hood that is on our minds,\" said local police chief Val Demings. \"I'm just glad we don't have any more fatalities or any more injuries than we currently have.\"\n\"We understand the shootings did take place in our office,\" said Ken Jacobson, a spokesperson for the company owning the building, Reynolds, Smith &amp; Hill. \"People were shot in our offices.\"\nSome office workers reportedly barricaded themselves in their offices following the incident, fearing the gunman to be nearby. \"We've got everybody in one office, with the door barricaded with a chest of drawers. There are about 20 of us in here. We're scared,\" said one woman, as quoted by the Los Angeles Times. \"We're watching TV, trying to see what is going on, but we really don't know. We're scared. We're safe right now, but we're scared.\"\nSeveral police cars, ambulances, and other emergency vehicles were dispatched to the scene. According to the ABC news network, agents from the FBI were also sent, and police officials said that SWAT teams also were on the scene. Traffic near the building was diverted, and there is a heavy police presence."}
{"id": "143625", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143625", "title": "Wikinews discusses the H1N1 pandemic with the CDC", "text": "The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is a US government agency. In an interview with \"Wikinews\", Jeff Dimond, a member of the Division of Media Relations for the CDC, answered a few question regarding the current situation of the .\nThe CDC reported that during week 42 (October 18\u201324) of this year, the swine flu activity increased in the United States with 19 confirmed deaths by swine flu, while week 43 (Oct. 25\u201331) faced 15 confirmed deaths.\nHow does the CDC feel the media has handled the H1N1 flu pandemic?\n Media coverage has been quite good.\n What measures are the CDC taking to combat the swine flu?\n Public health information is being distributed nationwide, scientists worked hard to identify the H1N1 virus and produce a vaccine in record time.\n What areas around the world are affected most by the swine flu?\n This is a question for the WHO (World Health Organization).\n Are the current anti-flu vaccines effective and how sufficient is the current supply?\n All current anti-flu vaccines are effective. Manufacturers are producing doses as fast as possible. Spot shortages may occur, but there is not an overall shortage of vaccine. For the most severe cases, a drug called Peramivir has been authorized for emergency use by the FDA.\n How can one avoid infection and how deadly is this disease?\n Proper hand sanitation and avoidance of individuals who have flu-like symptoms is the best way to avoid becoming ill. To date more than 1000 Americans have died from LABORATORY CONFIRMED cases of H1N1 and of those 129 are under the age of 18. The most at-risk populations are pregnant women, younger people in the 18\u201349 age group and those with other complicating conditions such as asthma, COPD, diabetes and morbid obesity.\n What efforts have the CDC made to insure vaccines are available for those with no or poor health-care?\n Distribution of vaccine is up to the state health departments. CDC is not a regulatory agency.\n If someone suspects they have swine flu what would the best course of action be?\n They should seek medical attention.\n When will the swine flu die down and cease being a pandemic?\n No idea.\n Besides the CDC, what other entities, governmental and private, are involved in stopping this disease and how?\n All public health and medical agencies with a stake in H1N1 are cooperating to control the spread of H1N1.\n Is there a significant risk of H1N1 mutating and becoming more deadly?\n Flu viruses are unpredictable so there is no way of answering this question. The CDC is constantly monitoring these viruses."}
{"id": "143628", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143628", "title": "Germany wins 2009 Race of Champions in Beijing, Sebastian Vettel wins 2009 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix", "text": "Seven-time Formula One world champion Michael Schumacher together with F1 racer Sebastian Vettel won the Nations Cup for Germany at the Race of Champions on Tuesday. The event was held at the Bird\u2019s Nest stadium in Beijing, China.\nThe winning duo beat the Brittish team of the new Formula One world champion Jenson Button and three-time World Touring Car champion Andy Priaulx.\nThe individual contest was won by Mattias Ekstrom, former DTM champion, who defeated Schumacher on Wednesday.\nRed Bull driver Vettel also won the FIA Formula One 2009 Etihad Airways Abu Dhabi Grand Prix earlier on November 1st at Yas Marina Circuit, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.\nPole-sitter Lewis Hamilton was overtaken by Vettel after his first pit stop and then was forced to return to the pits soon after and quit the race after suffering a brakes problem.\nVettel's teammate and winner of the previous Grand Prix Mark Webber came second and the current season champion Jenson Button won the third place on the podium for Brawn GP after pushing Webber very hard on the dying laps of the race with a gap of about half a second at the finish line.\nRubens Barrichello was able to mantain 4th place, having been overtaken only by his teammate Button.\nNick Heidfeld took fifth in BMW's final race. Both Toyota cars of Kamui Kobayashi and Jarno Trulli also drove the full race to finish on the back of Heidfeld. S\u00e9bastien Buemi closed the top eight for Toro Rosso.\nThus, Sebastian Vettel took the second place in the championship from Barrichello at the finale of 2009 season. Vettel claimed he will aim to become a champion next year. \"There is only one step we can make for the team ranking, for the constructors, as well as for the drivers' championship, for myself. So there is no question about the target,\" Vettel said after the race."}
{"id": "143629", "revid": "70202", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143629", "title": "Four people die after contracting H1N1 swine flu virus in West Midlands, England", "text": "Four people from the NHS West Midlands in England have died after contracting the H1N1 swine flu virus. With these deaths, the number of people that have been killed in the West Midlands from the disease has now increased to 19.\nNHS West Midlands has said that the number of people admitted to hospitals in the region with the disease this week was 203, whereas last week there were 146. It was also said that the number of inpatients taken into hospitals in the area was 95 from this Wednesday onwards.\nDr. Rashmi Shukla, the regional director of Public Health in the National Health Service, said about the incident: \"We would expect to see a rise in respiratory illness, such as swine flu, at this time of year, and we would like to remind people that they should continue to adhere to good respiratory and hand hygiene practices to reduce chances of the virus spreading.\n\"Unfortunately there have been a further four swine-flu related deaths and our thoughts are with the families of these patients at this very sad time. The vaccination programme has started well across the West Midlands. It is very important that frontline health and social care workers in the West Midlands have this vaccine to protect themselves, their families and their patients.\""}
{"id": "143630", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143630", "title": "Article/143629/Four people die after contracting H1N1 swine flu virus in West Midlands, England", "text": ""}
{"id": "143634", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143634", "title": "Wikinews interviews the CDC on the swine flu pandemic", "text": ""}
{"id": "143638", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143638", "title": "BBC's Strictly Come Dancing to be broadcast from Blackpool Tower", "text": "BBC television programme Strictly Come Dancing is to be broadcast from the Blackpool Tower in the county of Lancashire in England. \nThe ballroom in the famous tower, which is located in the city of Blackpool, is where the show will be broadcast from on Saturday night on BBC One. The show was previously broadcast from there in 2004, at the end of series two. There are currently nine couples remaining in the current series. All of the celebrities \u2014 including actor Craig Kelly, actresses Laila Rouass and Ali Bastian \u2014 arrived in the city of Blackpool on Wednesday.\nSpeaking to Manchester Evening News journalist \"Dianne Bourne\", actor Craig Kelly said: \"A few of them [the contestants] have asked whether I'll show them around, and of course if we get time I'm happy to take everyone sightseeing. We've got a dress rehearsal on Friday night, but if we get any time off, I'm sure I can show them a good time in Blackpool.\n\"I can't believe I'm there, it hasn't sunk in yet. It will hit me once I get inside the ballroom. It's going to be so much fun, and I'm going to go out there and give it my all. The pressure is off for me now because I've achieved my main goal to get to Blackpool. Anything from here is a bonus.\"\nThe programme, popular in the United Kingdom, has been exported around the world under the title \"Dancing with the Stars.\""}
{"id": "143640", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143640", "title": "Ousted Honduran president says crisis deal has failed", "text": "An aide to ousted Honduran President Manuel Zelaya said that a deal designed to end the country's political crisis has failed, after interim leader Roberto Micheletti announced the formation of a new cabinet.\nMicheletti said late on Thursday that he is installing a national unity government without the participation of Zelaya, who has declined to name any cabinet members. The two signed an agreement last week to resolve the four-month political standoff. A new government was set to begin Thursday.\nZelaya warned on Thursday the accord was at risk of collapsing unless the Honduran Congress held a vote to restore him to power immediately to serve out his term that ends in January. Honduras elects a new president on November 29.\nCongress must vote on Zelaya's restitution, but has not yet done so. The recently signed pact does not stipulate a deadline for the Congressional vote.\nThe United States, a major broker in the mediation efforts, said this week the next step in the political crisis is up to Honduras. The governments of several countries have threatened not to recognize the presidential elections if Zelaya is not first returned to power.\nZelaya was ousted in a military-backed coup in June, but returned to Honduras in September, where he has taken refuge in the Brazilian embassy in Tegucigalpa. "}
{"id": "143646", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143646", "title": "Beck v. Eiland-Hall", "text": ""}
{"id": "143647", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143647", "title": "Beck v. eiland hall", "text": ""}
{"id": "143650", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143650", "title": "Article/143607/US unemployment rate surpasses 10%", "text": ""}
{"id": "143653", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143653", "title": "Article/143608/Zimbabwe prime minister Tsvangirai ends cabinet boycott", "text": ""}
{"id": "143656", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143656", "title": "Article/143609/UN endorses Israel-Palestinian war crimes report", "text": ""}
{"id": "143659", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143659", "title": "Article/143625/Wikinews discusses H1N1 pandemic with the CDC", "text": ""}
{"id": "143661", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143661", "title": "750,000 could be affected by flooding in Kenya, UN says", "text": "The United Nations has warned that up to 750,000 people could be hit by heavy flooding and mudslides in Kenya due to heavy rains.\nThe United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) appealed for US$2.8 million to help more than 300,000 refugees in two camps in Kenya threatened by flooding. The agency explained that the mainly Somali refugees in Kenya's overcrowded Dadaab camps urgently need to be protected from the worst effects of the torrential rains.\nMost of Kenya is suffering from the effects of the prolonged drought; however, along the Indian Ocean Coast and the northeastern region of the country, people are being pounded by torrential rainfall.\nUN refugee spokesman Andrej Mahecic said many of those affected by the flooding are Somali refugees living in Kenya's overcrowded Dadaab camps.\n\"We fear that the looming El Nino phenomenon [...] a change in the atmosphere and ocean of the tropical Pacific region that produces floods, droughts and other weather disturbances in many regions of the world-may now threaten the 338,000 mostly Somali refugees in the two camps, which in any case usually are flooded for three months every year,\" he said.\nAlthough the yearly floods are predictable, Mahecic commented that the UNHCR is limited in what it can do ahead of time to protect the refugees from their destructive impact.\nMahecic says the UNHCR began digging trenches and placing sandbags around hospitals, bore holes and other strategic locations in both camps, when heavy rains started three weeks ago. Without these and other measures, he says many sections of the camps would have been inundated.\n\"We are also preparing to locate to higher ground within the camps refugees who might be worst affected by the floods, particularly the chronically ill, disabled people, the elderly and children and teenagers on their own,\" he stated. When asked why camps were built on areas prone to flooding, he replied that the government allocated the areas. \"There is very little choice on where you can put a camp,\" he added.\nMuch of the money from the appeal will be used to pre-position essential items such as fuel, blankets, plastic sheets, and to respond to possible outbreaks of disease."}
{"id": "143665", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143665", "title": "Article/143640/Ousted Honduran president says crisis deal has failed", "text": ""}
{"id": "143666", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143666", "title": "Wikinews discusses H1N1 pandemic with the CDC", "text": ""}
{"id": "143668", "revid": "11752", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143668", "title": "Article/143610/WHO says H1N1 swine flu world's most dominant virus", "text": ""}
{"id": "143670", "revid": "140191", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143670", "title": "WHO says H1N1 swine flu world's most dominant virus", "text": ""}
{"id": "143672", "revid": "206860", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143672", "title": "New Jersey jury convicts Florida man who claimed he was too fat for murder", "text": "A jury at a court in New Jersey, United States has convicted Florida resident Edward Ates of the murder of his ex-son-in-law. Ates, who was five feet eight inches tall and weighed 285 pounds at the time, had used the defence that he was too fat to kill.\nAtes had also claimed he had no motive for the 2006 murder of Paul Duncsak, who was embroiled in a custody battle with Ates' daughter over their child following a divorce. He had claimed in court that having climbed the stairs in Duncsak's Ramsey, New Jersey home he would have been so winded that he would have lacked the energy to raise, aim and fire a gun at the victim.\nThe prosecution had introduced evidence of Ates' prowess with a firearm, producing testimony that he displayed good marksmanship in the army and had recently shot a snake. Another claim of Ates was that his weight and size prevented the quick getaway to Louisiana the prosecution was alleging took place.\nAtes will be sentenced on December 17.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "143673", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143673", "title": "Article/143638/BBC's Strictly Come Dancing to be broadcast from Blackpool Tower", "text": ""}
{"id": "143682", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143682", "title": "Article/143672/New Jersey jury convicts Florida man who claimed he was too fat for murder", "text": ""}
{"id": "143685", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143685", "title": "Glenn Beck loses domain name case over parody website", "text": "American political commentator Glenn Beck has lost his case against a satirical website which parodies him, in a ruling from the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva, Switzerland. The website argued Beck's actions to shut it down were an attempt to silence free speech. On Friday, the website's creator sent a letter to Beck saying he would voluntarily turn over the domain name to him.\nFlorida resident Isaac Eiland-Hall created the website in September, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics \"to spread lies and misinformation\". The website was represented in the case \"Beck v. Eiland-Hall\" by free speech lawyer Marc Randazza. \"Wikinews\" interviewed Randazza for the article \"US free speech lawyer Marc Randazza discusses Glenn Beck parody\", and previously reported on the case in articles, \"US free speech lawyer defends satire of Glenn Beck\" and \"Satirical website criticizes Glenn Beck for 'hypocritical' attempts to silence free speech\".\nEiland-Hall registered the website at the domain \"www.GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlIn1990.com\". Its premise was derived from a joke statement made by Gilbert Gottfried about fellow comedian Bob Saget. Users of the Internet discussion community Fark first applied the joke to Beck, and it then became popular on several social media sites. Eiland-Hall saw the discussion on Fark, and created a website about it. The website asserts it does not believe the rumors to be true, commenting, \"[b]ut we think Glenn Beck definitely uses tactics like this to spread lies and misinformation.\" The website was created on September 1, and just two days later attorneys for Beck's company Mercury Radio Arts took action. Beck's lawyers sent letters to the domain name registrar where they referred to the domain name itself as \"defamatory\", but failed to get the site removed.\nBeck filed a formal complaint with the Switzerland-based agency of the United Nations, WIPO, who operate under regulations laid out by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. Beck asserted the website's usage is libelous, bad faith, and could confuse potential consumers. Beck's complaint was filed under the process called the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy. This policy allows trademark owners to begin an administrative action by complaining that a certain domain registration is in \"bad faith\". Beck argued the site should be shut down because it is an infringement upon his trademark in his own name, \"Glenn Beck\".\nEiland-Hall retained Randazza as his attorney after receiving threatening letters from legal representatives of Beck. On September 28, Randazza filed a response brief to WIPO, contending the site is \"protected political speech\", due to it's \"satirical political humor\". Randazza stated, \"even an imbecile would look at this Web site and know that it\u2019s a parody.\" Randazza's brief commented on Beck's style of reporting, and highlighted a controversial statement made by him when interviewing a Muslim US Congressman. Beck said to Representative Keith Ellison, \"I like Muslims, I've been to mosques. ... And I have to tell you, I have been nervous about this interview because what I feel like saying is, sir, prove to me that you are not working with our enemies.\" According to the Citizen Media Law Project, the website's joke premise takes advantage of \"a perceived similarity between Beck's rhetorical style and the Gottfried routine\".\nRandazza argued in the response filed on behalf of Eiland-Hall that Beck attempted to use the process of the WIPO court to infringe the free speech rights of his client; \"Beck is attempting to use this transnational body to circumvent and subvert the Respondent's [web site owner] constitutional rights [to freedom of speech],\" he wrote. Randazza cited the U.S. Supreme Court case, \"Hustler Magazine v. Falwell\", in arguing that Beck's attorneys advised him against filing legal action in a U.S. court because the website would likely be seen as a form of parody and due to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, such legal action would not be successful.\nOn September 29, Randazza sent a request to Beck's representatives, asking that their client agree to stipulate to the United States Constitution, and especially to the First Amendment, during the case before the WIPO. In the request, Randazza quoted a statement from Beck himself about the usage of international law by United States citizens, Beck said, \"[o]nce we sign our rights over to international law, the Constitution is officially dead.\" In an October 19 interview with \"Wikinews\", Randazza stated that Beck had not replied to his request to stipulate to the U.S. Constitution and the First Amendment in the WIPO case.\nOn October 20, Randazza filed a surreply \u2013 a response document to an October 13 supplementary filing made by Beck in the case. Attorneys for Beck asserted in the supplementary filing that the joke made by the website is difficult to comprehend, and therefore the domain name is confusing. In Beck's supplementary filing, his lawyers argued, \"While there is absolutely nothing humorous or amusing about the statement made by Respondent in his domain name that 'Glenn Beck Raped and Murdered a Young Girl in 1990,' the average Internet user finding the domain name GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlin1990.com (\"Disputed Domain Name\") in a search would have no reason not to believe that they will be directed to a website providing factual information (as opposed to protected criticism or similar protected speech) about Mr. Beck.\" \nRandazza's surreply asserted, \"An average Internet user might not 'get the joke'. In fact, the average Internet user does not understand any internet memes. That's the fun of a meme - it is an esoteric inside joke that will leave most people scratching their heads.\" In Randazza's conclusion to the Eiland-Hall surreply, he called Beck \"the butt\" of a joke he apparently does not understand. Randazza wrote that Beck \"should be deeply ashamed\" for devaluing the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.\nFor Beck to have prevailed in the case, the WIPO arbitrator would have needed to rule in his favor on three points: the domain name was confusing with the mark \"Glenn Beck\", the registrant Eiland-Hall did not have rights to the domain name, and that the domain name was registered as an act of \"bad faith\". Frederick M. Abbott, the WIPO arbitrator, did rule that the domain name was confusing, but also ruled that Eiland-Hall had legitimate interest in the domain name of the website he created. \"Respondent appears to the Panel to be engaged in a parody of the style or methodology that Respondent appears genuinely to believe is employed by Complainant in the provision of political commentary, and for that reason Respondent can be said to be making a political statement. This constitutes a legitimate non-commercial use of Complainant\u2019s mark under the Policy,\" said the WIPO ruling.\nThe WIPO decision also commented on the matter of third-party websites which may have derived profit through links from Eiland-Hall's website, \"While there is some evidence that at some stage third-party vendors of goods and services critical of [Beck] may have earned some income on sales of t-shirts and bumper stickers embodying political slogans based on click-throughs from [Eiland-Hall's] Web site, the panel does not believe this is sufficient 'commercial activity' to change the balance of interests already addressed,\" said the ruling.\nAfter the WIPO ruling, Eiland-Hall decided to voluntarily relinquish ownership of the domain name and hand it over to Glenn Beck. On Friday, Eiland-Hall sent a letter to Beck, and pointed out that Beck's actions only served to further increase publicity to the meme described on the website. \"It bears observing that by bringing the WIPO complaint, you took what was merely one small critique meme, in a sea of internet memes, and turned it into a super-meme. Then, in pressing forward (by not withdrawing the complaint and instead filing additional briefs), you turned the super-meme into an object lesson in First Amendment principles,\" wrote Eiland-Hall in the letter to Beck. \nEiland-Hall criticized Beck's actions with regard to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, writing, \"It also bears noting, in this matter and for the future, that you are entirely in control of whether or not you are the subject of this particular kind of criticism. I chose to criticize you using the well-tested method of satire because of its effectiveness. But, humor aside, your rhetorical style is no laughing matter. In this context of this WIPO case, you denigrated the letter of First Amendment law. In the context of your television show and your notoriety, you routinely and shamelessly denigrate the spirit of the First Amendment\". He stated that he persevered in the case in order to uphold the value of the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, \"I want to demonstrate to you that I had my lawyer fight this battle only to help preserve the First Amendment. Now that it is safe, at least from you (for the time being), I have no more use for the actual scrap of digital real estate you sought...\" A representative of Beck declined to provide a comment about the WIPO ruling, after a request from \"PC Magazine\".\nCommentators likened the legal conflict between Beck and the site to the Streisand effect, a phenomenon where an individual's attempt to censor material on the Internet in turn proves to make the material itself more public. Wendy Davis of \"Online Media Daily\" commented on the impact of the case, \"The decision appears to mark a significant win for digital rights advocates because a ruling in Beck's favor could have encouraged other subjects of online parodies to take their complaints directly to the WIPO rather than U.S. courts, which are bound by the First Amendment.\" Citizen Media Law Project's assistant director, Sam Bayard, wrote that the ruling was appropriate, \"It's good to see that this WIPO arbitrator had no interest in allowing Beck to circumvent the guarantees of the U.S. Constitution.\""}
{"id": "143686", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143686", "title": "Article/143685/Glenn Beck loses domain name case over parody website", "text": ""}
{"id": "143693", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143693", "title": "NATO airstrike kills seven Afghan security forces members", "text": "A NATO airstrike has killed at least seven members of the Afghan security forces in the western province of Badghis on Friday, according to the Afghan defence ministry. \"Due to a NATO forces air strike on November 6 in Badghis province seven Afghan security personnel (both Afghan army and national police) were martyred and also some were wounded,\" the ministry stated. NATO and Afghan authorities are investigating but NATO officials have yet to comment.\nAfghan Defence Ministry spokesman, Gen Mohammad Zahir Azimi, said that the airstrike hit a base housing NATO and Afghan troops. According to reports four soldiers and three policemen died.\nThe announcement comes amidst Friday's investigation in Badghis, where more than 25 joint troops sustained injuries whilst searching for two missing United States paratroopers. According to an anonymous Western military official they were injured by friendly fire.\nThis however has been denied by International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Todd Vician, of the US Air Force, who stated to AFP that \"[w]e have nothing to confirm friendly fire.\" He added that \"[n]o ISAF members were killed,\" and that the five ISAF soldiers who suffered injuries were Americans."}
{"id": "143695", "revid": "11752", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143695", "title": "Article/143693/NATO airstrikes kills seven Afghan security forces members", "text": ""}
{"id": "143697", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143697", "title": "Opposition agrees to join Lebanese government", "text": "Lebanese opposition parties, including Hezbollah, have agreed to form a government under designated Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri. \"The Lebanese opposition has approved the proposed unity government,\" said a senior source, after oppositions leaders met late last night. According to the source the new government should be formed within two days.\nSaad Hariri, backed by the United States and Saudi Arabia, led his allegedly anti-Syrian coalition to victory in June. Since the parliamentary elections he has sought to bring together a deal to form a cabinet, but has encountered many problems appointing ministers.\nIn July, the parties broadly agreed on the split of portfolios but not on the details. The new cabinet will feature thirty ministers, of which fifteen from al-Hariri's coalition and ten from opposition parties, including two from Hezbollah. The remaining five, which includes the posts for the ministries of the interior and for defence, will be appointed by President Michel Suleiman.\nZiad Baroud and Michel Murr, ministers for the interior and defence respectively, are expected to remain. New foreign and finance portfolios are set to be announced; al-Hariri proposed Raya Hassan as minister for finance, but opposition parties rejected him. Sources expect Speaker of the Parliament of Lebanon Nabih Berri, Hezbollah's main Shia Islamic ally, to name the new foreign minister."}
{"id": "143698", "revid": "26321", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143698", "title": "NATO airstrikes kills seven Afghan security forces members", "text": ""}
{"id": "143703", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143703", "title": "Madagascar political rivals agree to unity government deal", "text": "Four of Madagascar's top political figures signed an agreement on Saturday to form a coalition government, ahead of next year's planned elections.\nAccording to the agreement, , who instigated a coup earlier this year to overthrow ousted president , will remain the president. He, as well as Ravalomanana and former presidents Didier Ratsiraka and Albert Zafy, signed the agreement on Saturday.\n\"There will be two co-presidents as well as the president. That has been decided and accepted by leaders of the four movements, and by the president of the transition too,\" Rajoelina said to reporters in , Ethiopia.\nAccording to the United Nations' special envoy to Madagascar, Tiebile Drame, the four are now dividing up ministerial portfolios. \"The Madagascan leaders have managed to reach an accord on putting in place a transitional charter,\" Drame said. \"They agreed on the leadership of transitional institutions, including the presidency, and on power sharing in the government and other institutions.\"\nHowever, it is currently unclear how power would be split between the president and the two co-presidents, also referred to as the \"presidential council\". Drame said that the government would consist of \"a consensual president, two consensual co-presidents, a consensus prime minister and a national unity government.\"\nRajoelina, aged 35, overthrew former president Ravalomanana on March 17 this year, with the support of the army. Ravalomanana is now in exile in South Africa. However, Rajoelina's government has not received much recognition from the international community."}
{"id": "143705", "revid": "7186", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143705", "title": "At least nine missing after Russian military plane crashes into Pacific", "text": "A Russian military plane crashed today in the Pacific Ocean. At least nine are missing after the turboprop went down in the , which is located in the far east of the country.\nThe maritime reconnaissance/anti-submarine aircraft, which is based on the , was reported by \"\" as carrying \"at least nine people\" according to an unnamed military source. The BBC asserted that there were eleven on board, but did not attribute the number to anyone.\nA statement said the plane was lost from radar during a training exercise over the strait, which lies between the mainland and . Search and rescue is ongoing for the crew around the reported crash site.\nAn object that may be the fuselage has been located in water 44 meters (144 feet) deep, according to one report. Russia's has ceased all flights while the accident is investigated."}
{"id": "143706", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143706", "title": "Article/143705/At least nine missing after Russian military plane crashes into Pacific", "text": ""}
{"id": "143710", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143710", "title": "Actor Ryan Thomas involved in car crash in Manchester, England", "text": "British actor Ryan Thomas has become involved in a vehicle collision in Manchester, England. The actor, who is aged 25 and plays the character of Jason Grimshaw in ITV soap-opera Coronation Street, was believed to be involved in a collision involving his Chrysler striking a lamppost. This occurred at around 0400 GMT on October 31 in the city centre of Manchester.\nIt has been reported that Ryan has been taken away for questioning by the police. Another man was also arrested in connection with this incident, and was later charged with the offence of driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol, according to recent reports. Thomas was however not charged with offences relating to the accident.\nA spokesperson for the Greater Manchester Police has said the following about this incident: \"Police were called following a report of a collision. Officers attended and found a Chrysler had collided with a lamp-post. A 25-year-old was interviewed by police on Friday 6 November 2009.\""}
{"id": "143711", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143711", "title": "Disney has high hopes for new 'Ferb' Christmas special", "text": "The Walt Disney Company has today announced the inclusion of a Christmas special in its animated comedy series \"Phineas and Ferb.\" The special, entitled \"Phineas and Ferb's Christmas Vacation,\" will follow the series' protagonists, stepbrothers Phineas and Ferb, trying to spread Christmas cheer across their city after the mad scientist Dr. Doofenshmirtz uses a machine to cancel the holiday.\nDisney has high expectations for the special. On November 27, the company will stream one of the seven musical numbers that will be showcased in the special on its public radio network Radio Disney. The official special is set to air accordingly the following month on December 6, 2009, on the company's cable network Disney XD. Soon after, it will air on fellow Disney networks Disney Channel and ABC Family.\nThe crew of the series too have high hopes for the Christmas special. Zac Moncrief, who directed the special, announced that he believes it will \"go down in history as a cartoon classic.\" When asked about the special, co-creator Jeff \"Swampy\" Marsh explained, \"It's kind of intimidating. You sit down and think, 'This is something that's going to live at Christmas for a long, long time.'\" Dan Povenmire, the other co-founder, said of his excitement over the featured musical numbers, \"[H]opefully they'll be songs that this generation of kids will think of as Christmas songs the same way that kids think of 'Dahoo dore' (from 'How The Grinch Stole Christmas') or 'Rudolph The Red-Nosed Reindeer.'\" "}
{"id": "143712", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143712", "title": "Article/143703/Madagascar political rivals agree to unity government deal", "text": ""}
{"id": "143716", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143716", "title": "Iranian police arrest 109 in protests", "text": "Iranian police arrested 109 people in Tehran during opposition protests which took place alongside an official demonstration to mark thirty years of the storming of the United States embassy during the Iranian Revolution in 1979, according to the capital's police chief.\nThe Mehr news agency quoted General Azizollah Rajabzadeh as saying: \"A hundred and nine people were arrested. Forty-seven were released on bail and 62 are in prison and their files are with the judicial authorities.\" He also said that of the 62 still held in detention, 43 are men and 19 women. The rest of the people arrested have been released after questioning.\nWitnesses told reporters that the police had fired tear gas and used batons on them during Wednesday's demonstrations. The government backed their actions on the grounds that the demonstrations were illegal.\nThe opposition has been mounting demonstrations\u2014during which at least thirty people have been killed\u2014since the Presidential elections in June, which they accuse of being rigged. Thousands of protesters have been arrested, and around 200 are still in prison. Three opposition activists have been sentenced to death."}
{"id": "143717", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143717", "title": "China's premier visits Cairo ahead of China-Africa summit", "text": "China's Premier Wen Jiabao is in Cairo, Egypt, where he held talks with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in preparation for the that begins on Sunday in Sharm el-Sheikh.\nThe leaders of 49 African countries are gathering in the Egyptian Red Sea resort for a two-day meeting to discuss economic and political cooperation with China. \nAt their talks, Wen and Mubarak discussed ways to improve bilateral relations. The Chinese leader also delivered a speech at the Arab League headquarters in Cairo. He spoke about ways to further enhance the friendly relations between China and the Arab world - and to promote the Middle East peace process.\n\"The relationship between Chinese civilisation and Islamic civilisation goes back years,\" Wen said in his speech. \"China is a multi-ethnic and multi-religious country. The basic policy of the Chinese government is to ensure equality among all ethnic groups and speed up the economic development of all regions.\"\nThis July, clashes between Muslim minority Uighurs and the dominant Chinese group Han killed almost 200 in the Xinjiang region; vigilantes from the latter group started attacking Uighurs several days later.\nChinese officials said that they would punish those responsible for the attacks \"severely\", and several hundred people were detained in a crackdown. The government's treatment of the Uighur group was condemned by some countries abroad, with the United States saying that China was \"[repressing] peaceful expressions of religious beliefs and political views.\"\nWen, however, maintained that there was no discrimination against Muslims in China.\n\"In China, more than 20 million people from 10 ethnic groups believe in Islam. They are all members of the big family of the Chinese nation,\" he continued in his speech. \"Their beliefs, culture and way of life are fully respected.\"\nAt this second China-Africa summit, Wen is expected to offer African nations several billion dollars in credit and loans. To feed China's appetite for raw materials, Chinese companies have invested billions of dollars in Africa. Trade between China and the continent also continues to grow.\nThe first China-Africa summit was held in 2006."}
{"id": "143718", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143718", "title": "Article/143716/Iranian police arrest 109 in protests", "text": ""}
{"id": "143723", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143723", "title": "Saudi military attacks Yemeni rebels", "text": "Saudi Arabian military forces have continued their five-day attack against Yemeni rebels, leaving seven Saudis and an unknown number of Yemeni dead, according to the state news agency. The military has stated that only rebel forces on Saudi soil have been attacked, in contradiction with previous reports. Rebels have claimed that the military have targeted Yemeni villages.\nAn official at Samtah's district hospital listed seven Saudis, of which four women civilians, as dead and 126 wounded since fighting began. He said Friday had been the \"heaviest day\" for casualties since Tuesday, leaving two soldiers dead and many wounded. According to Saudi media, rebel shelling killed the women, who were all from the same family.\nAccording to the Saudi government the fighting began when rebels killed a Saudi border official and wounded eleven, going on to capture an area in the province of Jizan, though rebels say that border clashes had started earlier. The latest attacks took place after rebels disguised as women entered Saudi border villages on Friday night.\nRebels claim that Saudi ground troops have entered Yemeni territory, and that they have captured soldiers. They stated on their website that \"[w]ith Allah's help, the Saudi tyrannical advance into Yemen's territory has been defeated [...] A number of its troops have been captured and several military vehicles and supplies been seized.\"\nThe Saudi government responded that the airstrikes were on Saudi border territory to repel the rebels, although on Thursday a Saudi government adviser informed reporters that jets had bombed rebel camps within Yemen with the Yemeni government's blessing.\nRelief agencies are concerned about providing aid to the tens of thousands displaced since the latest offensive started on August 11. "}
{"id": "143726", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143726", "title": "Saudi military attacks Yemini rebels", "text": ""}
{"id": "143727", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143727", "title": "Article/143723/Saudi military attacks Yemeni rebels", "text": ""}
{"id": "143729", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143729", "title": "Article/143697/Opposition agrees to join Lebanese government", "text": ""}
{"id": "143733", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143733", "title": "Thousands flee violence in northern Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "The (UNHCR) reports more than 16,000 civilians have fled ethnic violence in the northern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). The UNHCR says the refugees crossed the into neighboring Republic of Congo to find safety after their villages were burned.\nThe UN refugee agency reported that the mass exodus from the DRC's remote Equateur Province took place last week. It says ethnic clashes broke out between the Enyele and Munzaya tribes over farming and fishing rights in the village of Dongo.\nUNHCR spokesman Andrej Mahecic said that 60 people were killed, and the deadly fighting spread to surrounding villages, several of which were burned. He says 40 other people were seriously injured and some are being treated in hospital.\n\"The 16,000 DRC asylum seekers\u2014who are mainly Munzayas\u2014are staying in public buildings or with host communities across 11 villages alongside the Oubangui River,\" he said.\n\"A UNHCR team is now visiting them and our initial assessment is that they need proper shelter, food and household items such as blankets, kitchen sets and jerry cans. Since a thorough assessment is made, we will work together with the government to help them. Some are also in need of medical care, but an over-stretched mobile clinic run by a UNHCR partner cannot cope with all their needs at the moment,\" he added.\nThe first clashes between the Enyele and Munzaya occurred in March. More than 200 houses were burned in the village of Munzaya, and more than 1,200 residents fled to safety in the Republic of Congo.\nMahecic reported that the UNHCR is very concerned about the intensity of the violence and its spread to nearby villages. He says the villages have been virtually emptied of their inhabitants.\nHe says this latest violence, which is taking place in the west of the DRC is unrelated to fighting going on in the east, which has displaced 1.7 million people within the country.\nBefore the current influx, the UNHCR spokesman said the Republic of Congo already was hosting some 9,000 refugees from the DRC who had previously fled there to escape civil war in their country.\nAccording to Mahecic, when the DRC's civil war formally ended in 2003, large numbers of refugees returned home. But, he says this last group of 9,000 refugees does not want to return to the homes they fled in the DRC. They say they wish to settle permanently in the Republic of Congo."}
{"id": "143735", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143735", "title": "Article/143717/China's premier visits Cairo ahead of China-Africa summit", "text": ""}
{"id": "143740", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143740", "title": "Building Collapses in Mecca at eve of Hajj Pillgrimage", "text": ""}
{"id": "143742", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143742", "title": "Mecca", "text": ""}
{"id": "143750", "revid": "70202", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143750", "title": "US House of Representatives passes universal health care bill", "text": "The United States House of Representatives has passed The Affordable Health Care for America Act or , a bill which would ensure that 95\u201396% of US citizens receive affordable health care.\nHR 3962 was passed with 220 yeas and 215 nays. Democrats in the house needed at least 218 votes to pass the bill. 39 Democrats voted against the bill, which contained the . This amendment curtailed women's abortion rights. One Republican, Representative of Louisiana, voted for the bill.\nThe US Senate has drafted their own health care bill, . It is not yet known when the Senate will vote on their version of the bill, but in the end both versions must be merged into one with both the House and Senate voting again.\nThe health care program associated with HR 3962 is estimated to cost over 1 trillion over ten years, according to the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, who states that it will result in \"[...] not one dime added to the deficit.\"\nUS President Barack Obama says that he is \"confident\" that the Senate will be able to come to an agreement and pass a completed bill. Obama added that he hopes to sign a \"comprehensive health insurance reform into law by the end of the year.\""}
{"id": "143752", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143752", "title": "Article/143750/US House of Representatives passes universal health care bill", "text": ""}
{"id": "143753", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143753", "title": "Article/143710/Actor Ryan Thomas involved in car crash in Manchester, England", "text": ""}
{"id": "143758", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143758", "title": "Sebastian Vettel wins 2009 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix", "text": ""}
{"id": "143760", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143760", "title": "Article/143661/750,000 could be affected by flooding in Kenya, UN says", "text": ""}
{"id": "143766", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143766", "title": "Article/143733/Thousands flee violence in northern Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": ""}
{"id": "143768", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143768", "title": "Families appeal to Spain's government to negotiate with Somali pirates", "text": "Families of Spanish sailors being held for over a month appealed to Spain's government on Friday to negotiate with the Somali pirates for their release. The kidnappers have threatened to kill three of the tuna trawler's crew after a stand-off with Spanish forces.\nThey called upon the government to free two captured Somalis held in Spain, who are suspected of being involved in the seizure of the Alakrana and its crew of 36. As in the case with the Lynn Rival, a British yacht, the kidnappers have demanded their release.\nRicardo Blach, the captain of the trawler who is being held by the pirates, warned relatives by phone that they intended to kill the three crew members\u2014moved from the trawler on Thursday and returned on Friday in a bid to pressure the Spanish government\u2014should their demands not be met. \"They have just told us that if in three days there is no change over the two held in Spain, they will kill the three and then three others and then more,\" he said.\nThe Spanish government has ruled this out, but is willing to hand them over to an African country, such as Kenya, as happened in May. \"That is an issue for the courts to decide,\" commented Deputy Prime Minister Mar\u00eda Teresa Fern\u00e1ndez de la Vega Sanz to reporters, adding that talking about this \"technical topic which is legally very complicated\" was \"risky\".\nSpanish Foreign Minister Miguel \u00c1ngel Moratinos stressed the need for calm amongst the tension of the removal and return of the three hostages. \"What does this mean? It means we must remain calm. Kidnappings are complicated situations, with highs and lows, they are very difficult and stressful. But we must remain confident and calm,\" he said during a news conference. \"If we remain calm and confident I am certain that what all Spaniards what, what the families want, what the government wants\u2014that the hostages can return to their homes safe and sound and this kidnapping ends satisfactorily.\"\nFamilies say the captured crew have \"little drinking water or food,\". They called for Spanish authorities to \"act immediately\" and \"do everything possible to bring home the 36 fishermen.\" in a joint statement. \"We demand that all the parties work in the same direction\" and requested that the Spanish government chooses \"negotiation\" as opposed to risking the life of the crew in danger by forceful means.\nThe pirates captured the boat on October 2, and are demanding million in ransom in addition to the release of the two captured Somalis. The crew comprises sixteen Spaniards, the crew includes eight Indonesians and members from Ghana, the Ivory Coast, Madagascar, Senegal and the Seychelles.\nSpanish military captured the two suspected pirates when they left the trawler via a small boat. On Friday, Spain's secretary of state for defence, Constantino Mendez, insisted that their release \"is not negotiable.\" He announced on Spanish National Radio that the hostages are \"in good health\" and that the kidnappers are \"dramatising\" the situation as a \"negotiating tactic.\"\nTwo Spanish frigates are observing the situation off the Somali coast."}
{"id": "143769", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143769", "title": "Soldier killed in explosion in Afghanistan, number of UK soldiers killed in country rises to 231", "text": "The Ministry of Defence has announced that a British soldier has been killed in an explosion in the Helmand Province of Afghanistan. With this announcement, the total number of military personnel that has been killed in Afghanistan has now increased to 231.\nThe man was killed on Saturday afternoon after an explosion near the town of Sangin. He came from 2nd Battalion, The Rifles, and was serving with 4th Battalion, The Rifles. The soldier's family have now been informed of the death, the Ministry said.\nLieutenant Colonel David Wakefield is the spokesperson for Task Force Helmand. \"He died a soldier, doing his duty and among his fellow soldiers,\" he said. \"He will not be forgotten.\""}
{"id": "143770", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143770", "title": "Article/143769/Soldier killed in explosion in Afghanistan, number of UK soldiers killed in country rises to 231", "text": ""}
{"id": "143772", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143772", "title": "Dalai Lama visits monastery despite protests from China", "text": "The Dalai Lama visited a Tibetan monastery on Sunday in Tawang in the northeast Himalayan region of Arunachal Pradesh in India, which is disputed by China and India. This is his second controversial visit this year, following a previous visit to Taiwan in August, also claimed by China.\nThe Chinese government has protested at the visit, accusing the Dalai Lama of trying to undermine their rule in Tibet and accusing the visit of anti-China sentiments. The Dalai Lama refutes these claims, calling the visit \"non-political\".\nThousands of Buddhists welcomed the spiritual leader, who fled Tibet to live in exile in India in 1959, upon his arrival at the monastery. \"We are very pleased and blessed to have His Holiness here,\" said Sarwang Lama, one of the monks. Tibetan prayer flags and posters of the Nobel peace prize winner decorated the route and monks played cymbals and horns.\nThe region of Arunachal Pradesh is of symbolic importance to the spiritual leader; it was through here that he fled to exile fifty years ago. \"There are a lot of emotions involved,\" he said. \"When I escaped from China in 1959, I was mentally and physically very weak [...] The Chinese did not pursue us in 1959, but when I reached India they started speaking against me.\"\nAlthough this the first time the Dalai Lama has visited Tawang, it comes amidst mounting tensions between India and China over the disputed border. In the past months both countries have moved troops and there have been minor incidents, although nothing similar to the intense war which took place briefly in 1962.\nThe Dalai Lama remains stoic about Chinese reactions. \"It is quite usual for China to step up campaigning against me wherever I go,\" he said. \"It is totally baseless on the part of the Chinese communist government to say that I am encouraging a separatist movement [...] My visit to Tawang is non-political and aimed at promoting universal brotherhood and nothing else.\""}
{"id": "143773", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143773", "title": "Article/143768/Families appeal to Spain's government to negotiate with Somali pirates", "text": ""}
{"id": "143777", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143777", "title": "Michael Schumacher and Sebastian Vettel wins 2009 Race of Champions in Beijing, Vettel wins 2009 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix", "text": ""}
{"id": "143780", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143780", "title": "Burst pipe probed in Utah refinery blast as questions asked over safety", "text": "Federal investigators with the Chemical Safety Board (CSB) of the United States have declared that a recent explosion that damaged homes alongside a Woods Cross, Utah refinery was triggered when a pipe burst. The revelation comes as locals begin questioning the decision to build houses near the facility.\nThe explosion at the Silver Eagle refinery on Wednesday morning was the second next year, and blasted a fireball into the neighbourhood. Ten houses suffered damage including cracked foundations, roofs lifted off, doors and windows blown out and debris hurled into rooms. One resident, Linda Wood, has been told to leave her house, which lies condemned after it was knocked clear of its foundations and damaged structurally.\nTwo local emergency dispatch centers were clogged up as calls came through to the 911 emergency number. Firefighters arrived quickly and tackled the resulting blaze at the refinery after establishing that there were no injuries. The 1950s refinery was not evacuated and is expected to continue operating despite the damage. It employs 80 people.\nSilver Eagle's own firefighting crews were already in control when they were joined by the emergency services, and together they put the flames out in around thirty minutes. Woods Cross mayor Kent Perry said that over the last six months there have been a lot of improvements in local firefighting and praised the reaction of emergency services. Later, 120 residents were visited by structural engineers to assess damage. There were also power outages in the area, with two other refineries amongst those affected.\nSilver Eagle had also sent employees on a firefighting course following another explosion in January. In that accident, a large cloud of flammable vapour developed over a tank of naptha before igniting, causing a flash fire that injured several employees. The firm has said they will pay for all the damages caused by the latest incident, and Perry advised affected people to keep track of expenses incurred.\nAs well as the CSB, Utah's Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Silver Eagle themselves are investigating the accident. The CSB released preliminary findings yesterday that indicated a burst pipe was to blame, although the reasons for its failure are unknown.\nA pipe ten inches in diameter burst along a horizontal section near a point where it changed direction from vertical. The pipe normally carried hydrogen and diesel and was linked to a reactor that took waxes out of diesel fuel, but due to maintenance by Silver Eagle the pipe was only transporting pressurised hydrogen. When it failed at 9:15 630 pounds of hydrogen spilled out and were ignited by a nearby furnace. The resulting 800 degrees Fahrenheit fireball leapt 100 feet into the air and sent a string of pressure waves to buffet the housing, as the pipe pointed east towards the homes.\nThe CSB's Donald Holmstrom commented that \"The unit was immediately engulfed in flames... We're extremely fortunate that no one got hurt. Five workers were in this process unit just a few minutes before.\" The revelations come as local residents expressed concern about the fact that houses were built so close to the refinery in the first place.\nIt has been discovered that there were no houses near the refinery until six years ago, when an application was denied after an engineer commissioned by the council reported that the risks were too high. However, the developer convinced officials to change their minds with a report by a company he had hired himself. The CSB is due to look into these studies as well as one by the refinery. An opinion piece by the \"Salt Lake Tribune\" also criticised the company's safety record, with the refinery also experiencing explosions in 2005 and 2007. However, the refinery had recently passed a safety inspection when the accident occurred. The CSB will examine whether the refinery was properly inspecting the pipe."}
{"id": "143782", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143782", "title": "Article/143772/Dalai Lama visits monastery despite protests from China", "text": ""}
{"id": "143783", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143783", "title": "Twelve dead after suicide bomb attack in Pakistan", "text": "Pakistani officials have said that a suicide bomber struck a crowded market today in northwest Pakistan, killing an anti- mayor. At least eleven other people were killed in the blast, and dozens were wounded.\nInitially, Mayor Abdul Malik was reported to have survived the attack in the Matni area on the outskirts of the city of . The market was crowded with shoppers ahead of the Muslim festival of .\nOfficials said that Malik, a former Taliban supporter, had switched sides and raised a militia to fight the Taliban. He had survived several attempts on his life since shifting his allegiance.\n\"Malik had survived several attacks on his life in the recent past, since he turned against the militants,\" said the top Peshawar official, Sahibzada Anis. \"But today the militants have finally killed him.\""}
{"id": "143785", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143785", "title": "South African Vipers win Singapore Rugby Sevens", "text": "South African Vipers completed a hat-trick to win their third consecutive International . Unbeaten throughout the two day tournament the South African team beat Fijian team Davetalevu by a margin of 24 points without allowing the Fijian team to score throughout the 20 minute final. In a replay of last years final, where the Vipers won 10-5, the mostly expatriate crowd rallied behind the Fijian team in an effort to create an upset against the Vipers who are the domestic development team of South African Sevens. \nIt was tough and tight start with both teams putting heavy tackles and showing strong defence until the sixth minute when the SA Vipers finally managed a fast run down the left wing to score a converted try. From that point is looked ominous for Davetalevu as the Vipers began to find openings in nearly every move and only passionate defence keeping the Vipers at bay from further scoring, finishing the first half 5-0.\nOnly two minutes into the second half the Vipers breached Davetalevu's defence and scored a relatively easy try yet failing to convert. A few minutes later Vipers crossed again and then scored a further try down the favoured left wing to bring the margin to 24-0 which would be the final score. The talent and form of the South Africans clearly showed as they have been touring for the past months.\nIn the minor finals the Casuarina Cougars easily won the Bowl competition with a 17-0 defeat of Australian team East Arnhem Rugby. The Plate final saw a strong performance from Borneo Eagles to beat New Zealand team Oriental Rongotai by 31 to 5. Leading 12-5 at half-time the Eagles never seemed troubled during the final.\nThe weekend was an emotional event for the Brunei Flying Kukris who recently returned from a tour of where they tragically lost two of their regiment. Serving out of Borneo the squad gathered before the commencement of their quarter-final to pay respect both to their own squadron but also in tribute to Remembrance Day which coincided with the weekend tournament. A minute of silence in respect to fallen soldiers was observed. Despite mixed results for the tournament the Kukris managed to qualify for the Jug Final. Kukris scored a try after full-time yet failing to convert a relatively simple kick that would have won the game for them. Final score was 21-20 with Singapore Barbarians taking the honours.\nFeaturing teams from thirteen nations from as far as Kenya, and Scotland the tournament has grown from success to success over the past years and now features on the calendar of major sporting events in Singapore. The tournament began in 1947 and an invitational event for Singapore and Malaysian teams and since grown into national and club teams from around the world are invited. It is hoped that the SCC 7s will soon feature on the International Rugby Boards 7s circuit according to club officials. The competition also included the return of the SCC Schools and Colleges tournament as well as the qualifying round for the International Rugby Board's Womens Rugby World Cup. "}
{"id": "143787", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143787", "title": "Article/143783/Twelve dead after suicide bomb attack in Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "143789", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143789", "title": "China offers Africa financial aid including $10 billion in loans", "text": " \nChina has offered Africa concessional loans worth billion as part of a host of new measures aimed at improving the economy of African nations. The announcement was made at the opening of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt. Leaders of nearly 50 African countries are attending the two-day conference. \nChina had already stated today at the 3rd Conference of Chinese and African Entrepreneurs, held immediately before the FOCAC, that Chinese firms would be encouraged to invest in Africa, while both sides would work together to improve the tourism, telecommunications and finance industries. China also said that governments should work with businesses to ensure co-operation between China and Africa.\nAs well as the loans, made over three years, China will write off the debt of Africa's poorest countries, build 100 African green energy facilities and systematically lower import duties on 95% of all African products exported to China. Another promise is a loan of one billion dollars aimed at small and medium sized businesses in Africa. There will also be efforts to promote each other's culture and increased medical assistance to Africa. Medical assistance comes in the form of 500 million yuan (US$73.2 million) of goods for the 60 hospitals and malaria centers China has already built, as well as 3,000 doctors and nurses. Roads will also be improved.\nChina also plans to assist with satellite weather monitoring, to help combat desertification and work within the urban environment, all aimed at reducing global warming. The new energy facilities will focus on solar, biogas and small-scale hydroelectrical installations. Another new measure is a promise to aid African farmers to ensure the continent is fed, increasing the number of demonstrations of agricultural technology in Africa to 20 and sending 50 teams of agricultural technology experts to the continent. Training in agricultural technology will be provided to 2,000 people. \n\"The Chinese people cherish sincere friendship toward the African people, and China's support to Africa's development is concrete and real,\" said co-chair Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao as the FOCAC opened up, adding \"Whatever change that may take place in the world, our friendship with African people will not change.\" He described this friendship as 'unbreakable'. Two years ago China pledged billion at the last FOCAC in Beijing and now, according to Jiabao, \"China is ready to deepen practical cooperation in Africa.\"\nChina has fulfilled its 2006 pledge, investing a total of billion in Africa last year alone. 49 African countries are represented at the FOCAC, which was created in 2000, although Jiabao noted that relations between China and Africa go back fifty years. China had already forgiven or reduced the debt for thirty nations at that FOCAC summit.\nAccording to Chinese state-owned paper \"China Daily\", trade between China and Africa increased by 45% last year, to give a total value of billion, a tenfold increase since 2001 and up from million in 2003. The Chinese have a 9.8% market share, the largest of any nation, according to the U.S. Commerce Department. China has paid for schools, hospitals, malaria clinics and Chinese scholarships for African students. 50 more schools are to be built and 1,500 people trained to staff them.\nSince 2006 Chinese energy firms have committed to spend at least billion securing African oil and gas. China's Sinopec Group, an oil giant, bought up Addax Petroleum Corporation from its Swiss owners that year, gaining control of oilfields in Nigeria, Cameroon and Gabon. China promised earlier this year to spend billion on infrastructure in the Congo in exchange for mineral deposits for mining operations.\nJean Ping, leader of the African Union, said the told those at the conference that the money is coming at an opportune time, because African growth was \"totally compromised\" by the global financial crisis. Ping said one of the lessons learned is that the world is paying for \"the irresponsible and lax behavior\" of large financial companies whose philosophy was to make short-term profits.\nNot all Africans are happy with China's increasing involvement in their continent. Trade practices are a concern for some, with a view that China exploits Africa for raw materials before selling back finished goods. Among these are Egyptian Trade and Industry Minister Rachid Mohamed Rachid. Egypt is the richest nation in the Middle East and is discussing this perceived issue with China. Rachid told Bloomberg \"What is a worry for me is if competition is unfair. That is where we are unhappy.\" Jiabao described the trade as being based on \"win-win programmes... and transparency.\"\nOthers in Africa are delighted with the situation. \"We want more investment from China,\" Tanzanian President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete told the forum. Egypt's own President Hosni Mubarak talked of \"peace, security and growth,\" and of \"boosting cooperation between China and Africa.\"\nJiabao also used his speech to respond to criticisms that China worked with nations regardless of their human rights record, such as Sudan, whose President Omar al-Beahir is wanted on a warrant issued by the International Criminal Court for war crimes. \"Africa is fully capable of solving its own problems, in an African way,\" he said, adding that \"China has never attached any political strings [\u2026] to assistance to Africa.\"\nBeshir thanked China in a speech for diplomatic work in Sudan, including working to defuse the Darfur conflict, which the United Nations says has left 300,000 dead. \"We express our deep appreciation for China's efforts in backing the comprehensive peace agreement in Sudan and its peace efforts in Darfur,\" he said, referring to a peace deal between the northern and southern parts of his country. \"We thank China particularly for backing efforts by our countries to achieve peace and stability in Africa's zones of conflict.\" Jiabao said China was willing to work towards \"the settlement of issues of peace and security,\" in Africa.\nA further criticism has been that China has brought in Chinese workers and used their own knowledge, instead of training locals. Jiabao's speech indicated an intention to co-operate better in the fields of science and technology, as well as improve training for African students on technical courses.\n\"Why do some only criticise China?\" asked Jiabao. \"Is this a view representing African countries, or rather the view of Western countries?\""}
{"id": "143790", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143790", "title": "Two winning British EuroMillions lottery tickets worth \u00a345 million each claimed", "text": "Two people have come forward to claim a share of the jackpot total of \u00a391,141,671 (US$151,435,849.52) that was previously unclaimed from the EuroMillions lottery draw held on Friday, a lottery draw that is held in Europe across eight countries every Friday night.\nThe two people have yet to have been identified because they have not yet been given their money, as The National Lottery said. Camelot, who are the group who operate the lottery service said that lottery winners are given the option to remain anonymous if the winners wish to do so. The claims are also yet to be validated. As well as this, the banks in the country do not open until Monday. With the total of \u00a345,570,835.50 (US$75,717,924.76) each, the two winners will break the record for the highest lottery jackpot win in the United Kingdom ever, and could each earn \u00a32 million per year in interest alone. \nIf the winners are individuals rather than syndicates, they will also be the first-ever National Lottery winners to go into \"The Sunday Times Rich List\", which is an annual compilation of the richest people in the United Kingdom that is published in the British broadsheet newspaper, The Sunday Times. Speaking to Sky News, compiler Philip Beresford stated: \"It\u2019s extraordinary that in the years we\u2019ve had the lottery we haven\u2019t had anyone at this level. If they\u2019ve got any sense they\u2019ll keep very, very quiet about it or go and live in Monaco, where they\u2019ll just be one of 1,000-odd millionaires.\" Beresford also spoke of how the winners should handle the situation of losing their jobs, if they wanted to do that. \"You've got to plan it very carefully and do it over the months. Get yourself sacked, that would be the best way,\" he said.\nAt present, further information cannot be released. A spokesperson for Camelot has said: \"In our experience of previous EuroMillions winners it seems a greater number of them have been syndicates...but right now we can\u2019t say whether these are groups or individuals.\""}
{"id": "143791", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143791", "title": "Flooding kills 91 in El Salvador", "text": "Flooding caused by torrential rain over several days has killed at least 91 people in El Salvador, according to officials. Sixty are still missing, more than 7,000 are in temporary accommodation and authorities expect to find more bodies. This brings the total up from the 50 reported earlier today.\nThe sea level has risen up to 1.2 metres (four feet) in some regions. \"Unfortunately we have to report the number of dead has increased because of the rains, we now count 50 individuals,\" said Jorge Melendez, head of El Salvador's civil protection service. \nThe government has declared a state of emergency in five regions in El Salvador after three days of rain, according to Interior Minister Humberto Centeno. He listed the capital San Salvador and the San Vicente department as the hardest-hit regions.\nRescue workers pulled bodies from collapsed buildings. \"We rescued a man this morning who had fractures, and a little girl,\" said local Cristian Aguilar. \"My son and I crossed through the floodwater and brought them here, and now she is with her parents.\" \nThere are conflicting reports as to whether Hurricane Ida is responsible for the flooding, with a spokesman for the United States National Hurricane Center (NHC) in Florida attributing the rain to a separate, low pressure system.\nForecasters have warned that flooding may hit Cuba, and the NHC said that they expect Ira to produce \"large and destructive waves\", with flash floods and mudslides in Central America and the Caribbean. The NHC also warns that Ida could reach the US's Gulf Coast by Tuesday.\nOn Thursday, Ida reached 120kph (75mph), making it a Category 1 hurricane\u2014the lowest level on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, a five-level scale that measures a hurricane's intensity and potential for destruction\u2014causing flooding in Nicaragua leaving thousands of people homeless. No casualties were reported."}
{"id": "143792", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143792", "title": "Flooding from Hurricane Ida kills 50 in El Salvador", "text": ""}
{"id": "143793", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143793", "title": "Article/143791/Flooding kills 50 in El Salvador", "text": ""}
{"id": "143795", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143795", "title": "Article/143785/South African Vipers win Singapore Rugby Sevens", "text": ""}
{"id": "143796", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143796", "title": "China to pledge US$10 billion in loans to Africa", "text": ""}
{"id": "143797", "revid": "11752", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143797", "title": "China's to pledge US$10 billion in loans to Africa", "text": ""}
{"id": "143800", "revid": "180829", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143800", "title": "Bridge collapse kills at least five in Massana, Andorra", "text": "At least five construction workers have died in a bridge collapse in Massana, Andorra. A 20 meter section of the bridge which was under construction collapsed at around noon on Saturday. Three fatalities had been confirmed by the evening after the accident. Another body had been retrieved from the rubble. A worker pulled from the site died of his injuries in hospital the next day.\nSix others were injured in the incident. Most of the workers were Portuguese. Around 60 workers were on site at the time of the collapse. \nFrench President and Co-Prince of Andorra Nicolas Sarkozy expressed his condolences and stated \"France's support and solidarity during this ordeal\u201d. Head of Government for Andorra, Jaume Bartumeu is set to travel to the accident site and visit the injured workers in hospital. \nThe cause of the collapse is still unknown. A police investigation is underway. "}
{"id": "143801", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143801", "title": "Article/143790/Two winning British EuroMillions lottery tickets worth \u00a345 million each claimed", "text": ""}
{"id": "143803", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143803", "title": "Article/143789/China offers Africa financial aid including $10 billion in loans", "text": ""}
{"id": "143805", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143805", "title": "Article/143800/Bridge collapse kills at least five in Massana, Andorra", "text": ""}
{"id": "143809", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143809", "title": "Article/143628/Germany wins 2009 Race of Champions in Beijing, Sebastian Vettel wins 2009 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix", "text": ""}
{"id": "143810", "revid": "160972", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143810", "title": "Disney has high hopes for new &quot;Ferb&quot; Christmas special", "text": ""}
{"id": "143812", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143812", "title": "Flooding kills 50 in El Salvador", "text": ""}
{"id": "143814", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143814", "title": "Flooding kills 91in El Salvador", "text": ""}
{"id": "143816", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143816", "title": "South Korean workers protest against labour laws", "text": "Thousands of workers in South Korea have staged protests to demonstrate against plans by the government to alter the labour laws in the country.\nAccording to Federation of Korean Trade Unions (FKTU) figures, up to 150,000 people attended the protests, held on Saturday in the capital of Seoul, although the police estimated the smaller figure of 60,000.\nUnder the government's new plans, it will start enforcing laws in 2010 to stop companies from giving wages to full-time representatives of unions, and will allow multiple unions for each individual workplace. Such plans have been delayed for a decade due to opposition from labour groups.\n\"We, the Federation of Korean Trade Unions, are here to defend the labour unions and labour movement in this land. We will thwart the government's policy by mobilising every means possible. If necessary, we will stage a general strike,\" said spokesman for FKTUK, Kang Choong-ho.\nRiot police were present at the demonstrations; however, it was reported that there was no violence or clashes, and protesters later dispersed peacefully.\nMedia contacted the South Korean Labour Ministry seeking comment regarding the rally, but the Ministry did not immediately respond."}
{"id": "143817", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143817", "title": "Iraqi parliament approves delayed election law", "text": "Iraq's parliament has passed a long-delayed election law required for national elections to be held next January. The law won approval on Sunday from 141 of the almost 200 Iraq lawmakers present after a tense, day-long debate. \nThe lawmakers overcame a key dispute about how to conduct the election in northern Iraq's ethnically-mixed and oil-rich city of Kirkuk.\nIraqi Kurds have long sought to incorporate Kirkuk into their autonomous region in northern Iraq. However, many of the city's Arab and Turkmen residents oppose such a move and want to remain under the control of Iraq's central government.\nIraq's upcoming national elections are a crucial test for the country as it takes more responsibility for its own security ahead of a gradual withdrawal of US forces. \nA spokesman for the Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq, Qasim Al-Abood, said to the Al Jazeera news agency that it wouldn't be possible to have the polls until January 23 at the earliest due to the delays.\n\"Unfortunately, we have lost time for January 16. We have sent a letter to parliament telling them we have lost that date. Still there is an opportunity to have the election in time, according to the constitution [...] by the 31st of January,\" he said, speaking to Al Jazeera.\nIt was not clear if the delayed passage of the law will give Iraqi authorities enough time to hold the elections as scheduled in mid-January. Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki had warned that Iraq could spiral into a new cycle of chaos if the elections do not go ahead."}
{"id": "143818", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143818", "title": "Article/143780/Burst pipe probed in Utah refinery blast as questions asked over safety", "text": ""}
{"id": "143820", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143820", "title": "Article/143816/South Korean workers protest against labour laws", "text": ""}
{"id": "143822", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143822", "title": "Article/143817/Iraqi parliament approves delayed election law", "text": ""}
{"id": "143826", "revid": "140191", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143826", "title": "Article/143537/Former Formula 1 designer unveils new electric car", "text": ""}
{"id": "143836", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143836", "title": "Article/143711/Disney has high hopes for new 'Ferb' Christmas special", "text": ""}
{"id": "143839", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143839", "title": "Thousands to celebrate twenty years since fall of Berlin Wall", "text": "Leaders from around the world are set to join hundreds of thousands of people in Berlin, Germany tonight to celebrate twenty years of the fall of the Berlin Wall, an historic event which contributed to the end of the Cold War.\nAs the capital prepared for the anniversary of the Wall's fall with festivities planned throughout the city, United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called for renewed worldwide efforts for freedom for those still living in repressive regimes. \"Our history did not end the night the Wall came down,\" she said last night to influential political figures, past and present. \"To expand freedom to more people, we cannot accept that freedom does not belong to all people. We cannot allow oppression defined and justified by religion or tribe to replace that of [communist] ideology.\"\nCelebrations will centre around the Brandenburg Gate, which has become the symbol of German reunification since the peaceful revolution that opened up the Wall in 1989. Much of the Wall has since been demolished, although a section of the 155 kilometre (96 mile) long wall remains serving as an art gallery for graffiti artists.\nHost German Chancellor Angela Merkel reminisced that the end of the Cold War came as a total surprise. \"The 20th anniversary of the fall of the Wall should remind us all what incredible luck we had with the reunification of Europe and Germany,\" commented Merkel, who grew up in communist East Germany, in Monday's edition of the \"Bild\" newspaper.\nOther leaders expected to attend are Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, and French President Nicolas Sarkozy, along with former Polish President Lech Wa\u0142\u0119sa, once leader of the Solidarity trade union and former Hungarian Prime Minister Mikl\u00f3s N\u00e9meth, who decided to open his country's borders, both who were key players in the downfall of communism in Europe.\nBerlin's Mayor Klaus Wowereit summed up the feeling of the people. \"History is palpable and alive here,\" he said. \"The peaceful revolution of the fall of the Wall 20 years ago paved the way to an unprecedented transformation of Berlin.\""}
{"id": "143840", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143840", "title": "Thousands celebrate 20 years of the fall of the Berlin Wall", "text": ""}
{"id": "143842", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143842", "title": "Thousands prepare to celebrate 20 years of the fall of the Berlin Wall", "text": ""}
{"id": "143855", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143855", "title": "Cigarette butts kill fish, scientists complain", "text": "Chemicals that leach from cigarette butts into water can kill fish, according to Professors Tom Novotny and Rick Gersberg of San Diego State University. They have conducted the first scientific study of the effects of cigarette butts on fish and will present his research today at the American Public Health Association annual meeting in Philadelphia. The SDSU researchers are calling for cigarette butts to be officially reclassified as toxic waste. \nProfessor Novotny explained, \"It\u2019s another way of looking at cigarettes as a societal hazard. If we reframe the butts as toxic hazardous waste, that adds another opportunity to change the social acceptability of smoking.\"\nCigarettes are the most frequently littered item in the world. More than 1 million cigarette butts are collected annually in cleanups at United States beaches. Worldwide, several trillion cigarettes get smoked each year.\nProfessors Gersberg and Novotny allowed smoked cigarette filters to soak in water for 24 hours, then added fish to the tanks. Within five days half the fish had died. They obtained the same results with fresh water and with salt water at a concentration of roughly 1 butt per liter. Their research was funded by the Cigarette Butt Pollution Project of the California Tobacco Related Disease Research Program.\nThe regional director of a smokers' rights group is dismissive of their work. Robert Best of Citizens Freedom Alliance told the press \"This is just another attack on smokers and an attack on the entire tobacco industry, including farmers and distributors, in the midst of an economic crisis. We already have littering laws in the state of California that say you cannot throw any trash out on the ground or in the waterways.\u201d\nCoastal states in the United States have been enacting bans on smoking at beaches. California and New Jersey have enacted bans to reduce secondhand smoke exposure and reduce litter. The city of San Francisco has added a 20 cent surcharge to each pack of cigarettes sold to cover costs of butt cleanup. A San Francisco litter audit led to an economic study that found the annual cost of cigarette butt disposal was $6 million. Oxford Outcomes spokesman Dr. John Schneider told the press the San Francisco cigarette surcharge was justified.\nRobert Barnes of UC San Francisco endorses tobacco surcharges to pay for cleanup. He also supports steeper fines for cigarette litter and advocates lawsuits against the tobacco industry to compensate for cleanup costs. The Surfrider Foundation takes a milder approach. It has run a \"Hold Onto Your Butt\" litter awareness program for six years. Bill Hickman of the Surfrider Foundation was glad to see scientific validation for the awareness campaign. \"We have thought for a while that toxic chemicals leach from discarded butts when submerged in water, so it\u2019s good in some ways to see confirmation.\"\nGersberg and Novotny want to perform followup studies to determine which cigarette butt chemicals are most harmful to fish."}
{"id": "143856", "revid": "10716", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143856", "title": "Cigarettes kill fish, scientists complain", "text": ""}
{"id": "143857", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143857", "title": "Suicide bomber kills three in northwestern Pakistan", "text": "Pakistani police said today that a suicide bomber in a rickshaw has killed three people in Peshawar, a day after another suicide bomber killed thirteen people in a crowded market outside the northwestern city.\nPolice say the suicide bomber detonated his explosives at a checkpoint on a frequently traveled road that runs around Peshawar. Officials say a constable, a passerby, and the rickshaw driver were among the dead. The blast wounded five other people.\nAccording to a senior local police officer, the attacker was probably intending to detonate the bomb in a more crowded area, but decided to set it off when security officials stopped the rickshaw in order to check it.\n\"The bomber was in a rickshaw and detonated his explosives when the rickshaw was stopped for a check,\" said police official Zafar Khan. \"One of our constables, a passerby and the rickshaw driver were killed.\"\nLocal government official Sahibzada Anis said that \"despite all the security arrangements you cannot stop one who is bent upon killing himself and others. Our police are rendering their lives to save citizens but these kinds of incidents are hard to stop.\"\nNo person or group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack."}
{"id": "143858", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143858", "title": "China executes nine for ethnic riots", "text": "China has executed nine people for taking part in July's ethnic unrest in the western city of \u00dcr\u00fcmqi, according to a local state news agency.\nThe official \"Xinhau news agency\" reported that the nine were the first of those convicted in the riots to be executed. It said the sentences were carried out with the approval of the country's supreme court; however, it was not immediately clear where the executions were carried out.\nViolence erupted in the Xinjiang regional capital of \u00dcr\u00fcmqi on July 5, after Uighurs protested the deaths of two Uighur factory workers in a brawl with Han Chinese in southern China's Guangdong province. \nUighurs said the protests turned violent when police cracked down on the rally. Protesters then attacked ethnic Han people in the regional capital. Two days later, Han Chinese staged revenge attacks. Nearly 200 people are believed to have been killed, but the official toll is much lower.\nAt least 21 people have been sentenced in connection with the \u00dcr\u00fcmqi riots, in crimes ranging from murder to arson, robbery, and destruction of property. Twelve people have been sentenced to death."}
{"id": "143859", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143859", "title": "Two US pilots killed in Iraq after helicopter crash", "text": "The United States military in Iraq has said that two US helicopter pilots were killed in a crash in the Salah ad Din province in north-central Iraq today.\nThe military described the crash as a \"hard landing\" in a statement; however, few other details were provided.\nAccording to the statement, the cause of the incident is under investigation, although there was no immediate indication that the crash could have been caused by an enemy attack. The identities of the pilots are being withheld until their families are notified.\nWith these deaths, as well as that of a US Marine killed today in an accident, the number of US troops killed in Iraq since the invasion in March of 2003 has increased to 4,362."}
{"id": "143860", "revid": "26321", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143860", "title": "Article/143855/Cigarette butts kill fish, scientists complain", "text": ""}
{"id": "143862", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143862", "title": "Article/143859/Two US pilots killed in Iraq after helicopter crash", "text": ""}
{"id": "143865", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143865", "title": "Thousands to celebrate twenty years since 'Fall of the Wall'", "text": ""}
{"id": "143867", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143867", "title": "Article/143839/Thousands to celebrate twenty years since fall of Berlin Wall", "text": ""}
{"id": "143868", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143868", "title": "Article/143858/China executes nine for ethnic riots", "text": ""}
{"id": "143871", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143871", "title": "Article/143857/Suicide bomber kills three in northwestern Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "143873", "revid": "206860", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143873", "title": "Christchurch, NZ man admits murdering wife and neighbour and having sex with bodies", "text": " \nA man in Christchurch, New Zealand has pleaded guilty to murdering his wife and a neighbour in his home. Jason Somerville said he killed them out of anger and admitted having sex with their bodies after strangling them. Local press has dubbed the case the House of Horrors.\nSomerville, 33, killed Tisha Lowry, 28, on September 25, 2008. Lowry had been walking to her home just two doors from Somerville where she lived with her grandfather. A statement of fact released today said that the victim arrived at Somerville's sometime between 10.50am and 12.30pm. Somerville, who was alone in the house, let his neighbour in when she knocked, Lowry having visited the Somervilles before.\nInside the house a fight developed, with Somerville grabbing Lowry around the throat with both hands and strangled her. Lowry fought back, kicking and punching, but Somerville tightened his grip until Lowry went limp. He then held on for some time before releasing his hold, blocking up her throat with a pair of his wife's underwear. He then removed her jeans and underwear and had sex with the body.\nSomerville took Lowry's body to the cupboard beneath his stairs before rushing out to a meeting scheduled early that afternoon. An hour later he returned, removed a manhole under the stairs and left the body half-naked in a space below the house, which he then cleaned before his wife came home. When his wife, Rebecca Chamberlain, got home at 3:00 she was clueless as in to what had just occured in her home.\nRebecca Chamberlain left home the following day for a meeting that Somerville knew would keep her occupied for some time. The summary statement of fact stated that Somerville returned to Lowry's corpse, removed such clothes as were still on it and \"again sexually violated her body by having sexual intercourse with her.\" After this he buried her beneath the house in a shallow grave.\nBy September 28 Lowry had been reported missing and police questioned her killer on October 5, 2008 during routine enquiries. Somerville stated that he and Chamberlain often saw Lowry on the bus and that a month earlier she had knocked at their door looking for another person. He went on to state that he let her in and they talked about estate agents as he had been looking to sell up at the time. She then walked through the house and after initially assuming she was going to the toilet Somerville alleged he found Lowry rifling through the wardrobe, and asked her to leave. Lowry's family would go on to make repeated TV appeals for information on her whereabouts.\nChamberlain was murdered after her husband woke up at 9.30 am on August 30, 2009 and made sexual advances. After she repeatedly refused him, he went downstairs and made himself a coffee before returning to the bedroom to try again. Chamberlain was killed after she again refused to comply; he strangled her in a headlock until her pulse stopped, then squeezed her arteries before again stuffing underwear down her throat. Then he had sex with her.\nWhen he was done, he dragged the corpse down the stair and through the manhole, before burying her in the sand beside Lowry. At 2:15 Christchurch police received a call from Somerville stating that his wife had not returned home after setting out for church at 10:30. Police spoke with him and he said he felt the fact she left her keys was out of character. Her handbag, cellphone and bank cards were also left, and he stated she was a recovering alcoholic with a history of self-harm who was on antidepressants. He said that none of his wife's friends and family knew anything when he inquired on her whereabouts.\nOn September 2 police contacted him and he stated there was no sign of his wife. The day after he went to his local police station to report that he had found his wife's glasses and wedding ring had been posted through his letterbox overnight. However, upon questioning he admitted the killings. Police then searched his house and found the bodies.\nSomerville was remanded in custody until sentencing after today's proceedings at the Christchurch District Court. He is to be sentenced before the High Court on November 27, at which point the court will refer to psychiatric reports, a pre-sentence report and victim impact statements from Somerville's children. The children are in the care of families affiliated with the Taupo Baptist Church, which the family had attended for four years. Minister Keith Harrington said his congregation had prayed for Somerville to plead guilty if he was, adding that he was pleased the killer had avoided a traumatic trial both for the sake of the victims' families and Somerville's own wellbeing.\nSomerville's house, variously reported as being on Hampshire Street and Wainoni Road, has faced two attempts to burn it down, and the council is currently in a controversial attempt to buy it from its current owners. Neighbours wish to see it converted into a facility for the community.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "143874", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143874", "title": "Vitaly Ginzburg, Russian academician and physicist, dies at age 94", "text": "Nobel Prize winner, prominent Russian Academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences and theoretical physicist Vitaly Ginzburg has died on Sunday at the age of 93 years.\nGinzburg was one of the fathers of the Soviet hydrogen bomb together with Andrei Sakharov, and the head of the Department of Theoretical Physics in the Lebedev Physical Institute of Academy of Sciences (FIAN), as well as editor-in-chief of the scientific journal UFN.\nHe was born in Moscow in 1916, and graduated from the Physics Faculty of Moscow State University in 1938.\nIn 2003 he shared the Nobel Prize in Physics together with Alexei Abrikosov and Anthony Leggett for developing the theory behind superconductivity.\nHe developed a theory based on Lev Landau's previously-established theory of second-order phase transitions, about the free energy of a superconductor near the superconducting transition which describes how deep into the superconducting phase the system is. He also developed the theory of electromagnetic wave propagation in plasma and a theory of cosmic radiation. He was usually touted as the \"last theorist\" in Russia.\nHe was granted the USSR State Prize in 1953 and the Lenin Prize in 1966.\nGinzburg died from heart failure. A civil funeral will be held on Wednesday at the main hall of FIAN. He will be buried on November 11 in the Novodevichy Cemetery in Moscow.\nIn a TV interview, Ginzburg once said: \"If I believed in God, I would start every morning by saying, 'Thank you, My Lord, for making me a theoretical physicist.'\" But he was an atheist.\nOne of his favorite sayings was: \"Of course, it could be funny, if it wouldn't be so sad\"..."}
{"id": "143876", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143876", "title": "Somali pirates launch attack on oil tanker", "text": "Somali pirates have carried out their longest-range attack to date today, firing on an oil tanker 1,850 kilometers off the coast of Somalia. NATO and European Union anti-piracy forces say pirates attacked the ship in the Indian Ocean, 740 kilometers northeast of the Seychelles islands.\nThe reports say pirates in at least two skiffs approached the tanker and attacked it with rifles and rocket-propelled grenades. The vessel took evasive maneuvers and escaped. No casualties were reported. The EU says a spotter plane has been sent to monitor the pirates.\nMeanwhile, maritime officials say Somali pirates have seized a cargo ship full of weapons. Details are sketchy on the incident. It is not clear when or where pirates seized the ship, which the officials say is using a fake name, Al Mizan.\nThe Atalanta naval mission of the EU, which operates off the coast of Somalia, released a statement regarding the incident. \"This was the longest range of a pirate attack off the Somali coast ever. Automatic weapons and rocket propelled grenades were fired. With increasing speed and evasive maneuvers the master managed to evade the attack. No casualties were reported,\" it read.\nSomali pirates have gradually extended their reach using so-called mother ships that can journey far out to sea. From these, the pirates launch small skiffs to attack and board commercial vessels. \nLast year, and for much of this year, most of the pirates' attacks took place in the Gulf of Aden, north of Somalia. But in recent weeks, the pirates have concentrated their efforts in the western Indian Ocean, north of the Seychelles. The vast area is much harder for foreign naval patrols stationed off Somalia to cover, although the patrols have stopped some pirate attacks in progress.\nSomali pirates are holding at least nine ships and well over 100 crew members in all. The pirates are also holding a British couple, Paul and Rachel Chandler, who they seized from a yacht last month."}
{"id": "143877", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143877", "title": "Somali pirates launch long-range attack", "text": ""}
{"id": "143878", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143878", "title": "Seven armed robbers in South Africa shot dead by police", "text": "According to local police, seven armed men were shot to death by South African police early on Sunday at the Protea Coin security group's cash depot in Polokwane.\nThe men reportedly arrived at the cash depot shortly after midnight, and shot out the lights of the building's main entrance and security cameras. They were reportedly dressed in balaclavas and gloves, and the burglar alarms had apparently been tampered with.\nPetrus van Niekerk, from the Protea Coin group, said that security guards in another part of the building heard shots being fired, presumably as the intruders were blasting out the lights and security camera. \"The police reacted in a flash,\" he noted.\n\"The criminals, who were wearing balaclavas, were already inside and had tampered with the alarm when the police arrived. They also had cut a burglar window leading to the main vault. After realising that they were in trouble, the robbers started firing at the police,\" said police spokesman Musa Zondi.\nPolice returned fire, killing all of the intruders, according to Zondi. He added that none of the police officers or any passerby were injured, and no money from the cash depot was stolen. Three firearms and burglar's tools were later recovered.\nWerner Vermaak, a spokesman for the ER24 ambulance company, said that paramedics, after arriving at the depot, had proclaimed all of the intruders dead at the scene, from gunshot wounds. \u201cSeven people have been fatally wounded and no one else was injured in this incident,\u201d he said, as quoted by Eyewitness News.\nIn an official statement, national chief of police Bheki Cele said that security officials had responded to a distress call. \"Our SAPS [South African Police Service] members have prevailed yet again. They were ready to strike in the early morning hours. People often forget that it might just as well have been members of the police force who were shot and killed,\" said he. \"This is a warning. Anyone who attempts to challenge the police will lose.\"\n\"With the festive season upon us, we are bound to see more people trying their luck. But we are ready ensure that our people are not held to ransom by criminals and violent thugs,\" the police chief continued. He praised the police for what he called their \"swift and efficient action\".\nThe Beeld newspaper, however, said that they received information that the police might have received a tip-off the night before the incident, in which a special task force was told to \"get ready\"."}
{"id": "143880", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143880", "title": "Article/143876/Somali pirates launch attack on oil tanker", "text": ""}
{"id": "143883", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143883", "title": "Article/143878/Seven armed robbers in South Africa shot dead by police", "text": ""}
{"id": "143885", "revid": "180829", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143885", "title": "Nokia recalls 14 million phone chargers", "text": "Fourteen million phone chargers have been recalled by Nokia amid fears that they could cause electric shocks. Despite the recall there have been no reported injuries. \nChargers from the AC \u2013 3E, AC \u2013 3U and AC \u2013 4U are the models in question. The models affected were made between June and October 2009. The chargers, made by the Chinese firm BYD, are mainly sold in Europe and North America. BYD has stated that it will pick up the costs of the replacements. \nAn investigation by Nokia revealed that the charger covers became prone to coming off and revealing the components, increasing the risk of electric shocks. Customers can determine whether their charger is faulty on the Nokia website. Nokia has released a statement saying the recall is a \u201cproactive, precautionary measure\u201d. "}
{"id": "143886", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143886", "title": "China loans Ethiopia US$349 million for construction of expressway", "text": "China has loaned Ethiopia US$349 million worth of funds for the construction of the the country's first modern expressway, making Ethiopia among the first beneficiaries of the recently implemented China-Africa development funding plan.\nThe road is to be close to 80 kilometres long, and will connect Nazaret (also called ), the country's second-largest city, with the capital, Addis Ababa.\nFunds from the Export-Import Bank of China are to be used to give the loans, according to the agreement. The deal was signed by Li Ruogu, the president of China\u2019s Export-Import Bank, and Ahmed Shide, the Ethiopian state minister of finance and economic development. \nAccording to the , the motorway is to be completed by 2014. The country has also agreed to other financial deals with China, mainly in the telecommunications and energy sectors."}
{"id": "143888", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143888", "title": "Article/143885/Nokia recalls 14 million phone chargers", "text": ""}
{"id": "143895", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143895", "title": "Creator of website satirizing Glenn Beck on winning domain name case", "text": "\"Wikinews\" interviewed the creator of a parody website satirizing American political commentator Glenn Beck, about his thoughts after prevailing in a domain name dispute brought by Beck before the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva, Switzerland. Florida resident Isaac Eiland-Hall created the website in September, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics \"to spread lies and misinformation\". Eiland-Hall was represented in the case by free speech lawyer Marc Randazza.\n\"Wikinews\" interviewed Randazza for the article \"US free speech lawyer Marc Randazza discusses Glenn Beck parody\", and previously reported on the \"Beck v. Eiland-Hall\" case in articles, \"US free speech lawyer defends satire of Glenn Beck\", \"Satirical website criticizes Glenn Beck for 'hypocritical' attempts to silence free speech\", and \"Glenn Beck loses domain name case over parody website\".\nBackground.\nEiland-Hall registered the website at the domain \"www.GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlIn1990.com\". Its premise was derived from a joke statement made by Gilbert Gottfried about fellow comedian Bob Saget. Users of the Internet discussion community Fark first applied the joke to Beck, and it then became popular on several social media sites. Eiland-Hall saw the discussion on Fark, and created a website about it. The website asserts it does not believe the rumors to be true, commenting, \"[b]ut we think Glenn Beck definitely uses tactics like this to spread lies and misinformation.\" The website was created on September 1, and just two days later attorneys for Beck's company Mercury Radio Arts took action. Beck's lawyers sent letters to the domain name registrar where they referred to the domain name itself as \"defamatory\", but failed to get the site removed.\nBeck filed a formal complaint with the Switzerland-based agency of the United Nations, WIPO, who operate under regulations laid out by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. Beck asserted the website's usage is libelous, bad faith, and could confuse potential consumers. Beck's complaint was filed under the process called the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy. This policy allows trademark owners to begin an administrative action by complaining that a certain domain registration is in \"bad faith\". Beck argued the site should be shut down because it is an infringement upon his trademark in his own name, \"Glenn Beck\".\nEiland-Hall retained Randazza as his attorney after receiving threatening letters from legal representatives of Beck. On September 28, Randazza filed a response brief to WIPO, contending the site is \"protected political speech\", due to it's \"satirical political humor\". Randazza stated, \"even an imbecile would look at this Web site and know that it\u2019s a parody.\" Randazza's brief commented on Beck's style of reporting, and highlighted a controversial statement made by him when interviewing a Muslim US Congressman. Beck said to Representative Keith Ellison, \"I like Muslims, I've been to mosques. ... And I have to tell you, I have been nervous about this interview because what I feel like saying is, sir, prove to me that you are not working with our enemies.\" According to the Citizen Media Law Project, the website's joke premise takes advantage of \"a perceived similarity between Beck's rhetorical style and the Gottfried routine\".\nRandazza argued in the response filed on behalf of Eiland-Hall that Beck attempted to use the process of the WIPO court to infringe the free speech rights of his client; \"Beck is attempting to use this transnational body to circumvent and subvert the Respondent's [web site owner] constitutional rights [to freedom of speech],\" he wrote. Randazza cited the U.S. Supreme Court case, \"Hustler Magazine v. Falwell\", in arguing that Beck's attorneys advised him against filing legal action in a U.S. court because the website would likely be seen as a form of parody and due to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, such legal action would not be successful.\nOn September 29, Randazza sent a request to Beck's representatives, asking that their client agree to stipulate to the United States Constitution, and especially to the First Amendment, during the case before the WIPO. In the request, Randazza quoted a statement from Beck himself about the usage of international law by United States citizens, Beck said, \"[o]nce we sign our rights over to international law, the Constitution is officially dead.\" In an October 19 interview with \"Wikinews\", Randazza stated that Beck had not replied to his request to stipulate to the U.S. Constitution and the First Amendment in the WIPO case. On Monday, Ed Brayton of \"ScienceBlogs\" noted, \"Ironically, Beck never did respond to Marc Randazza's motion for a stipulation that the panel would have to apply American law in deciding the case...\"\nOn October 20, Randazza filed a surreply \u2013 a response document to an October 13 supplementary filing made by Beck in the case. Attorneys for Beck asserted in the supplementary filing that the joke made by the website is difficult to comprehend, and therefore the domain name is confusing. In Beck's supplementary filing, his lawyers argued, \"While there is absolutely nothing humorous or amusing about the statement made by Respondent in his domain name that 'Glenn Beck Raped and Murdered a Young Girl in 1990,' the average Internet user finding the domain name GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlin1990.com (\"Disputed Domain Name\") in a search would have no reason not to believe that they will be directed to a website providing factual information (as opposed to protected criticism or similar protected speech) about Mr. Beck.\" \nRandazza's surreply asserted, \"An average Internet user might not 'get the joke'. In fact, the average Internet user does not understand any internet memes. That's the fun of a meme - it is an esoteric inside joke that will leave most people scratching their heads.\" In Randazza's conclusion to the Eiland-Hall surreply, he called Beck \"the butt\" of a joke he apparently does not understand. Randazza wrote that Beck \"should be deeply ashamed\" for devaluing the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.\nFrederick M. Abbott, the WIPO arbitrator, ruled that Eiland-Hall had legitimate interest in the domain name of the website he created. \"Respondent appears to the Panel to be engaged in a parody of the style or methodology that Respondent appears genuinely to believe is employed by Complainant in the provision of political commentary, and for that reason Respondent can be said to be making a political statement. This constitutes a legitimate non-commercial use of Complainant\u2019s mark under the Policy,\" said the WIPO ruling. The WIPO arbitrator commented that the panel was \"very reluctant to reject respondent\u2019s claim of legitimate noncommercial and fair use,\" and noted, \"Were we to hold otherwise, there can be little doubt that political cartoonists and satirists would be subjected to damages awards without any showing that their work falsely defamed its subject.\" The \"Hustler Magazine v. Falwell\" U.S. Supreme Court case was cited by the WIPO arbitrator in the ruling, \"This panel considers that if Internet users view the disputed domain name in combination with a visit to respondent\u2019s website, the \u2018total effect\u2019 is that of political commentary by respondent, capable of protection as political speech by the 1st Amendment under the \"Hustler Magazine\" standard.\"\nAfter the WIPO ruling, Eiland-Hall decided to voluntarily relinquish ownership of the domain name and hand it over to Glenn Beck. On Friday, Eiland-Hall sent a letter to Beck, and pointed out that Beck's actions only served to further increase publicity to the meme described on the website. \"It bears observing that by bringing the WIPO complaint, you took what was merely one small critique meme, in a sea of internet memes, and turned it into a super-meme. Then, in pressing forward (by not withdrawing the complaint and instead filing additional briefs), you turned the super-meme into an object lesson in First Amendment principles,\" wrote Eiland-Hall in the letter to Beck. \nEiland-Hall criticized Beck's actions with regard to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, writing, \"It also bears noting, in this matter and for the future, that you are entirely in control of whether or not you are the subject of this particular kind of criticism. I chose to criticize you using the well-tested method of satire because of its effectiveness. But, humor aside, your rhetorical style is no laughing matter. In this context of this WIPO case, you denigrated the letter of First Amendment law. In the context of your television show and your notoriety, you routinely and shamelessly denigrate the spirit of the First Amendment\". He stated that he persevered in the case in order to uphold the value of the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, \"I want to demonstrate to you that I had my lawyer fight this battle only to help preserve the First Amendment. Now that it is safe, at least from you (for the time being), I have no more use for the actual scrap of digital real estate you sought...\" A representative of Beck declined to provide a comment about the WIPO ruling, after a request from \"PC Magazine\".\nCommentators likened the legal conflict between Beck and the site to the Streisand effect, a phenomenon where an individual's attempt to censor material on the Internet in turn proves to make the material itself more public. \"Online Media Daily\" commented, \"The decision appears to mark a significant win for digital rights advocates because a ruling in Beck's favor could have encouraged other subjects of online parodies to take their complaints directly to the WIPO rather than U.S. courts, which are bound by the First Amendment.\" Citizen Media Law Project's assistant director wrote that the ruling was appropriate, \"It's good to see that this WIPO arbitrator had no interest in allowing Beck to circumvent the guarantees of the U.S. Constitution.\"\nEiland-Hall's website was still operational Monday, at a mirror site www.GB1990.com. At the site, Eiland-Hall announced \"WE WON!\". He gave Beck well-wishes as the commentator is recovering from appendicitis.\nInterview.\n Can you describe a little bit about yourself and your background, and how you came to be interested in the Glenn Beck meme in the first place?\nIsaac Eiland-Hall: I've been a computer geek since 1987, when I was 12. I've been on the internet since 1994. Among other jobs, I've done technical support and web design/hosting. I've gone back to school and I'm working on a degree in Computer Science. If I manage that, I'm thinking of following up with a Master's in Meteorology. If I had more courage, I'd probably try to become a professional storm chaser. \nI grew up as a very fundamentalist Southern Baptist. I got better. My political and social outlook has gone from very conservative to very liberal. One nice thing about this is that I understand both sides. A lot of liberals scoff at the concept of Chick tracts, for example; and I do, now. But growing up, I remember believing in all that stuff. I do have to remind myself that most Christians are pretty moderate in their outlook, though, sometimes when I get a little frustrated by some of the more vocal small groups who would like the U.S. to become a Christian Theocracy.\nI've also become frustrated with radicals -- liberal and conservative; though, as a liberal, you'll be shocked - shocked, I say - to find out that I see more conservatives that fit the bill -- radicals who I feel are tearing this country apart with their manipulations and lies. These extremists are pushing people toward the extremes, and it's polarizing and ripping our nation apart. It seems like nobody wants to compromise any longer; nobody wants to try and work together; everybody wants their party to win at all costs, because the other party is the spawn of Satan.\nThe sad thing is - the American people are losing in this battle. Republicans are fighting against government interference in business; Democrats are (or should be) fighting against business interference in government. Ultimately, though, special interests are pumping so much money into the political scene that it seems the voice of the People is lost in the noise of business.\nIt seems that the media - especially the television media - have long ago figured out that the way to make their businesses work (which, being commercial entities, they must, of course, do as well as they can) requires ratings. Ratings require getting people to watch. Getting people to watch requires controversy. And so, people like Glenn Beck - among many others - rise to become stars, because they can get ratings, which ultimately boil down to money. The problem is that truth and compromise are boring, but exaggeration and controversy are exciting.\nWhen I saw the thread on Fark, where one of the posters, in a thread about Sarah Palin announcing her support for Glenn Beck, said, \"Why haven't we had an official response to the rumor that Glenn Beck raped and murdered a girl in 1990?\" -- I didn't think too much of the post by itself; but in the thread, it immediately took off. A bunch of people ran with it and it became a hit in that thread. It was actually the next day when I saw this thread - and so many people had said so many funny things... it was like a relief\nvalve had opened up and all this pent up frustration was flowing out.\n Why did you decide to create the website \"www.glennbeckrapedandmurderedayounggirlin1990.com\"?\nE-H: There was so much energy in the Fark thread where the meme got its start. I felt that it was something worth continuing; that the frustration that was\nbeing expressed in that thread through the expression of the meme might actually become a force for change. And even if it didn't manage to change anything, just the simple act of being a part of the meme might bring about a cathartic release of that frustration at all the stupidity of the pundits out there - of whom I think that Glenn Beck is really the worst of the worst.\nThe thing about Fark is - it's a great site, but it's all based on these threads. Someone submits a link, and that gives you a thread to talk about it. After something like 30 days, posting is cut off. Also, the site is made up of a lot of links for the public threads, but many times that for the private threads. It can be very hard to keep up with a single thread. So I realized that if this meme were to take off - it needed a home. I knew I needed to create a website, and a forum on that website, to facilitate whatever was going to happen.\nUltimately, the website's purpose was to shine a light on Glenn Beck's style, and to reflect it right back at him.\n How did you feel when you first found out that Glenn Beck had begun to take legal actions with regard to your website?\nE-H: Well, it certainly didn't make me very happy, but at the same time, it confirmed what I suspected.\nIt didn't make me happy because, obviously, nobody likes to be sued. It also made me unhappy because I saw it as a direct assault on free speech.\nOf course, it confirmed my suspicions that Glenn Beck's claims to be a champion of the constitution are false claims.\n Why did you register alternate domain names : \"DidGlennBeckRapeAndMurderAYoungGirlIn1990.com\", and \"gb1990.com\"? Will you maintain the website at those locations?\nE-H: As I said about the original domain - I wanted to register the meme as the domain, and that's what I referred to as the \"statement\" domain. The \"question\" domain came about because the entire concept of the meme is not to try and convince people that Beck raped and murdered; but how the supposed rumour that he did is a direct parody of the techniques he himself uses.\nI thought that the question form would serve the meme better, so I went ahead and registered it; and as soon as I did, I changed the website to the question instead of the statement (in the title and header for the page).\nWhen the domain dispute was filed, I registered gb1990.com, as well as gb1990.net. I did this partly because if he managed to get the question or statement domains taken down, I would have a backup in place. Also, it's a lot easier to type \"gb1990\" than either of the long versions, so that was a part of it as well. I made gb1990.com the primary domain for the website, and parked the other two on top. I put gb1990.net as a mirror on my second server, in case something happened to the first.\n You wrote in your November 6 letter to Beck, \"It bears observing that by bringing the WIPO complaint, you took what was merely one small critique meme, in a sea of internet memes, and turned it into a super meme.\" Media commentators have written that Beck's actions in the case trigged the \"Streisand effect\". Do you think this happened here? What do you mean when you say Beck created a \"super meme\"?\nE-H: I definitely think the Streisand effect came into play. Even before I got the website up and running, Farkers had already spread the meme - asking questions on Yahoo Answers, for example. So it definitely got attention out there; but the traffic to the site dropped off drastically after the first couple of days. It wasn't until people posted news about the legal threats to Reddit, Fark, Digg, and many blogs that I saw spikes in traffic. The major spikes in traffic to the site have all come from updates about where the legal fight stood. For example, when a thread went green (public) on Fark.com, traffic to my servers nearly overwhelmed them for a couple of hours. When we posted my brilliant lawyer Marc Randazza's responses to the original WIPO complaint, traffic was high for a couple of days. In each case, it dropped down to a relatively low level when news was sparse.\nI think that if Beck had never started the legal action, this meme would have died out after a couple of weeks. It might have popped up in the occasional place, but I don't think it would have lasted the more than two months it has.\nBy super meme, I just mean that there are so many memes out there. Some are specific to a certain site; some have a very short life and die quickly; some continue at a very low level. This meme, however, just took off. So many people were posting it on some many unrelated threads on Fark that moderators were banning people for it). I've seen people post this meme in places where few memes go - on news sites, blogs: anywhere people comment, this meme will pop up.\n You also wrote in your letter to Beck, \"In this context of this WIPO case, you denigrated the letter of First Amendment law.\" How would you like Beck to act differently in the future with regard to the First Amendment to the United States Constitution?\nE-H: Beck's WIPO complaint revolves around trademark issues. His claim is that the domains violate the trademark he has in his name. I don't believe that was his ultimate motivation in trying to get the domain; I think he was trying to stifle free speech. I think he looked at \"Hustler v. Falwell\" and decided he couldn't win against my legally-protected right to mock him, but that he might be able to use other means to get my point of view shut down. \nWhat I'd like Beck to do differently is simply realize that the chilling effects of trying to have speech you disagree with shutdown would ultimately\naffect his rights as well. I disagree with many of the things he says, and hope to put pressure on him to change his techniques; but ultimately, I would never wish to stifle his first amendment rights. There's a difference between disagreeing with someone, mocking them, and trying to intimidate them to stop talking.\n\"' In the final decision in the \"Beck v. Eiland-Hall\" case, the WIPO arbitrator cited the U.S. Supreme Court case, \"Hustler Magazine v. Falwell\". Are you familiar with this Supreme Court case? What are your thoughts on how it was applied to your case?\nE-H: I am familiar with the case; and in fact, it helped me sleep at night during the past couple of months. I think it is a very important case on the topic of first amendment rights as regards parody and satire. I strongly believe that humour should be used to point out the ridiculous - that's one of the reasons that the Daily Show is so popular and successful. They do it very well.\nAs regards the application of the \"Hustler v. Falwell\" case to this case, I think the overall application was fair: Parody and satire are protected forms of free speech.\n\"' On September 29, 2009, your lawyer Marc Randazza requested that Glenn Beck agree to stipulate to the application of the United States Constitution, and also especially to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. In an October 19 interview with \"Wikinews\", Randazza said that Beck had not responded to this request. Why do you think Beck chose not to stipulate to the U.S. Constitution and the First Amendment in this case?\nE-H: I think Beck knew that doing so would hurt his case. The rights of free speech we enjoy in the United States are broader than in some other countries. WIPO, being an international organization, could well have assigned an arbitrator from a country that doesn't protect speech as strongly as we do. And WIPO, not being bound by the U.S. Constitution, might not choose to consider the strong protections we have in rendering their decision.\nWe also felt it was ironic that Glenn Beck, who is on record as being against an international body making judgments that might overrule the U.S. Constitution, would himself choose to use an international body to try and stifle speech that would be protected under the U.S. Constitution. So ultimately, you could say we were trying to help him retain the patriotic image he has worked to hard to present.\nUltimately, the arbitrator applied the First Amendment anyhow. We felt that in sending that letter, we would give Beck a chance to show that his purported support for the constitution was real. His failure to respond shows everyone that he is full of shit.\n\"' An article in \"Online Media Daily\" noted, the decision in your WIPO case, \"appears to mark a significant win for digital rights advocates because a ruling in Beck's favor could have encouraged other subjects of online parodies to take their complaints directly to the WIPO rather than U.S. courts, which are bound by the First Amendment.\" How do you feel about the fact that your case may have set precedent for similar cases in the future?\nE-H: If this has truly set precedent, I am honored to have the chance to serve the cause of Liberty. I'm nobody special, mind you. Anyone could have set up\na site - it just happened to be me that got thrown in the center of this fight.\nWhen Beck first filed his WIPO action, I was ready to just give in to make things easier for myself. Surrender is always the easiest thing, isn't it? But, I started to think about what the case meant. It did occur to me that if Beck succeeded, that his very predictions that he gives on the air -- about international bodies threatening our free speech rights -- would come true. I then realized that the case was about much bigger principles.\n Are you happy with your decision to turn over the \"www.glennbeckrapedandmurderedayounggirlin1990.com\" domain name to Beck?\nE-H: Absolutely yes. For one, the meme is already out there. In one sense, the job of the meme is over and done with - it has gotten people to talk about the issue, and that was one of the primary goals. Another primary goal was to foster that sense of community, and to provide a release valve for the frustration so many have with Glenn Beck, and others like him. Of course, we want to keep the entire thing going, but we can do that without the statement version of the domain.\nThat domain gets a LOT of traffic. I could have taken down the domain, put up a pay per click site, and made a heck of a lot of money by harnessing the advertising revenue from the site. It was in my financial best interest to do that - but this was always about free speech - not about profit.\nI absolutely think giving him the domain sends the message that I want to send - this wasn't personal, it was political. Beck made it about Free Speech principles, and I think I did my part to stand up for those principles. But, keeping this particular domain wouldn't have advanced that cause any further than it had already been advanced.\nI wanted to give him the domain to demonstrate the fact that my interest in fighting the WIPO case was purely a matter of principle.\n Do you have any thoughts or advice for other potential creators of satirical parody websites who may undergo a similar legal process in the future?\nE-H: If you decide to make a political satire site, do it. Be prepared to stick it out. Get a good lawyer who is committed to First Amendment principles, who knows how to handle this kind of thing, but get one who will teach you and make sure that you are able to make informed decisions.\nThere were a lot of lawyers to choose from, but Mr. Randazza seemed to be the best guy for this kind of case. His First Amendment credibility is unshakeable, his knowledge of this area of law is fantastic, but he has a reputation for managing his clients' interests really well. He didn't tell me what to do, he taught me what the law was, he gave me options and choices, and let me make informed decisions. In a process like this, it is easy to feel like things are out of your control. Make sure your lawyer teaches you about what you can control. It will make you feel a lot more comfortable.\n\"' Are there any other points regarding the \"Beck v. Eiland-Hall\" case that you would like to elaborate or explain?\nE-H: Although the vast majority of emails and voicemails I've received are from folks that clearly get the joke, there are so many people that didn't. If there's anyone out there who still thinks the point was to try and get people to believe that Glenn Beck raped and murdered a young girl in 1990: Please understand that I've tried to make it as clear as I could that it's just not true. The entire point is that the supposed rumour is so over-the-top as to be ridiculous. Further, I have always had a disclaimer on the site explaining that it was a parody. The welcome blurb has always said that we don't believe the rumour is true. The entire point is that we're trying to point out techniques we've seen Beck himself use.\nOne thing that has amused me is that some of the folks who don't get that have come into the forum, and tried to respond by attacking Obama, because that's what they feel the response to the supposed rumour should be. Sometimes I've been successful in explaining how this really isn't the same thing, but sometimes it just doesn't work.\nThe other thing I would like to clarify is that I have not made a single cent from this; in fact, I have spent probably more than I could afford to on the whole project. I also didn't want or expect the 15 minutes of fame I got. I don't have any regrets - it's been fun, in some respects, mind, but if I was out for fame or money, this would not be the method I'd choose.\n\"' Mr. Eiland-Hall, thank you for taking the time to participate in this interview with \"Wikinews\".\nE-H: Hey... that's not a question!\nSeriously, thank you very much for taking the time to interview me. It's been my pleasure."}
{"id": "143898", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143898", "title": "Article/143873/Christchurch, NZ man admits mudering wife and neighbour and having sex with bodies", "text": ""}
{"id": "143900", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143900", "title": "Article/143886/China loans Ethiopia US$349 million for construction of expressway", "text": ""}
{"id": "143902", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143902", "title": "Article/143895/Creator of website satirizing Glenn Beck on winning domain name case", "text": ""}
{"id": "143904", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143904", "title": "France sends special envoy to North Korea", "text": "France has dispatched a special envoy to North Korea for talks that are expected to focus on establishing diplomatic ties with Pyongyang and possibly on the country's nuclear program.\nFrench special envoy Jack Lang arrived in North Korea for a five-day visit that could mark a turnaround in relations with the country. France is the only major European country not to have formal ties with Pyongyang, and it never recognised the country after it split from Korea following the Korean War. Some international observers consider dispatching a high-level envoy like Lang, a former French minister, an unusual move.\nFrance is not a member of the six-party talks aimed to end North Korea's nuclear-weapons program, but it is one of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. Lang told news agencies the French government could play a role in reviving the stalled six-party talks. He noted that he would \"discuss all the problems, [and] the nuclear question, naturally.\""}
{"id": "143906", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143906", "title": "Heavy 6.7 earthquake strikes Indonesia; at least one killed", "text": "At least one person was killed and several dozen more were injured on Monday, after a heavy earthquake with a magnitude of 6.7 struck near the island of Sumbawa in Indonesia.\nAccording to US Geological Survey statistics, the epicentre of the quake was sixteen kilometres from the town of Raba (about 1,300 kilometres from the capital Jakarta) at a depth of eighteen kilometres. The US Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said that it was unlikely that significant waves would be generated by the tremors.\nIndonesia's health ministry crisis centre head said that 38 people were injured and had to be hospitalised by the tremors. He added that a few buildings were damaged, but everything was \"under control\".\n\"Residential houses, school buildings, mosques have been damaged, but not all of the buildings are totally destroyed, part of them have collapsed,\" said police spokesman Tjatur Aprianto.\nIndonesia is located on the \"Ring of Fire\", an area that has frequent seismic activity. Monday's earthquake comes after the country is still recovering from a heavy 7.6 magnitude earthquake that hit the area several weeks ago, killing over a thousand people and destroying hundreds of buildings. In 2004, an even stronger 9.2 earthquake off the coast off northern Sumatra killed close to a quarter of a million people in Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka, and other neighbouring countries."}
{"id": "143909", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143909", "title": "Emergency declared in El Salvador after torrential rains", "text": "The president of El Salvador declared a national emergency in his country today, after torrential rains, flooding, and landslides inundated the area.\nMauricio Funes said that the situation was \"a tragedy\", and that the amount of damage suffered by the country was \"incalculable\". \"Today is a very sad day for the country and its government, in fact it is one of the most tragic days in memory,\" he said in a televised speech on Sunday.\nRescue teams, residents, and the armed forces are digging through mud and rubble around the country to try and find survivors and bodies. Recovery efforts were made difficult due to clogged roads and destroyed bridges.\nAccording to the El Salvadorian Interior Minister, Humbero Centeno, at least 130 people had died from mudslides and flooding across the country, and a further 13,680 had lost their homes. The BBC reports that the torrential rains were likely caused by a low pressure weather system in the Pacific, possibly related to Hurricane Ida, which passed near the area earlier.\nThe Interior Minister noted that the death toll will probably rise in the near future, as rescue efforts continue and many people are still missing. \"There are 60 people missing in just the province of San Vicente [...] we have been through disaster zones, including a fly-over of Verapaz [in San Vicente], it is a real tragedy there,\" he said.\nRains started falling in El Salvador on Saturday, as the storm passed over the country, causing rivers to flood their banks and initiating mudslides. Ida, now downgraded to a tropical storm, is expected to head to the Gulf Coast and southern areas of the United States next."}
{"id": "143910", "revid": "2930", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143910", "title": "Article/143909/Emergency declared in El Salvador after torrential rains", "text": ""}
{"id": "143912", "revid": "2930", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143912", "title": "Article/143906/Heavy 6.7 earthquake strikes Indonesia; at least one killed", "text": ""}
{"id": "143914", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143914", "title": "Two Kenyans kidnapped in Somalia by gunmen", "text": "According to witness reports, two Kenyan businessmen were kidnapped in the Somali capital of Mogadishu on Monday, and a ransom has been demanded for them.\nThe Kenyans, workers of the printing agency Hamar Adde, were taken from the Bakara market, the biggest trading centre in the Somali capital, at gunpoint. Eyewitnesses said that two Somalis in the company of the Kenyans were also taken, but later were released without a ransom.\nMuktar Ise, a grocer at the complex, was a witness to the kidnapping. \"The gunmen entered the printing shop and took the Kenyans with two Somali workers but they released the Somalis hours later. We don't know the identity of the gunmen but they were heavily armed,\" he said, as quoted by News24.\nRelatives of the two freed Somalis confirmed the incident. The brother of one of the freed men commented that \"they took the Kenyans to an undisclosed location and are asking for ransom.\" The ransom amount, however, is not yet known.\n\u201cThe two Kenyans have been in one of the most violent areas of Mogadishu because they were both Muslims. It is surprise to many people that fellow Muslims who resisted the high level of violence are to lose their liberties,\u201d said media expert Hassan Mohamud from Mogadishu. \nNo group has yet claimed responsibility for the kidnapping."}
{"id": "143916", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143916", "title": "Christchurch, NZ man admits mudering wife and neighbour and having sex with bodies", "text": ""}
{"id": "143919", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143919", "title": "Zimbabwe projects 15% average growth over next five years", "text": "Economic Development Minister Elton Mangoma of Zimbabwe today unveiled a mid-range plan to relaunch and transform the Zimbabwean economy over the next five years, envisioning a 15% average rate of growth.\nMangoma told reporters in the capital of Harare that he looked for 12.5% growth in gross domestic product in 2010 over the nearer term, after a projected 3.7% expansion this year.\nMangoma said the country would not reintroduce the Zimbabwean dollar over the period but would stick with the multi-hard currency regimen adopted by the country's national unity government with transactions primarily in the US dollar and South African rand.\nHe called for a market-driven economy, but said the country would review mining agreements where resources were not being tapped or where royalties had been set too low. He noted that mining operations should deliver clear benefits to surrounding communities.\n\"During the period [till 2015], the economy is expected to grow by an average growth rate of 15 percent from a level of 3.7 percent in 2009. This will be achieved through the restoration of productive capacity and creation of new capacities, aggressive infrastructure rehabilitation and development,\" he said.\nZimbabwe's economy has been largely devastated after political upheaval in 2000, and extreme hyperinflation several months ago. The unity government formed earlier this year, however, has sparked some hope that the economy can rebound."}
{"id": "143922", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143922", "title": "Article/143914/Two Kenyans kidnapped in Somalia by gunmen", "text": ""}
{"id": "143924", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143924", "title": "Article/143919/Zimbabwe projects 15% average growth over next five years", "text": ""}
{"id": "143928", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143928", "title": "Article/143904/France sends special envoy to North Korea", "text": ""}
{"id": "143933", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143933", "title": "Article/143572/Prospects for a space elevator rise", "text": ""}
{"id": "143934", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143934", "title": "Korean navies exchange fire", "text": "A skirmish has occurred between patrol boats of the Korean People's Navy of North Korea and the South Korean Republic of Korea Navy in the Yellow Sea. According to a South Korean naval official, the North Korean vessel took \"considerable damage.\"\nAccording to the Yonhap, the South Korean news agency, the battle began just after 11:30am local time, near the islands of Baengnyeong and Daecheong when a North Korean patrol vessel strayed over a disputed maritime demarcation line know as the Northern Limit Line (NLL). The South Korean vessel issued warning broadcasts, which were ignored and began to fire warning shots.\n\"A North Korean patrol ship crossed the Northern Limit Line and did not cease when we fired warning shots,\" a military source said, as quoted by Yonhap. \"There were no casualties on our side while the North Korean boat, half-destroyed, sailed back to the North.\" \nAccording to the unnamed naval official, \"The North Koreans then opened fire on the South Korean boat.\" He further added, \"The battle itself lasted no more than a minute.\" The official noted that, \"It wasn't a close-range battle. We fired heavily on the North Korean vessel.\"\nNorth Korea contests that their ship crossed the border, and is seeking an apology, according to the Korean Central News Agency. \"The South Korean military authorities should make an apology to the North side for the armed provocation and take a responsible measure against the recurrence of the similar provocation,\" stated North Korea's military supreme command. This is the latest exchange between the two countries along their western sea border since intense battles in 1992 and 2002.\nEach side blames the other for the clash.\nSouth Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) said that the North Korean boat crossed the NLL before sailing south for about 1.1 kilometres (0.7 miles). The South Korean boat fired several warning shots which were ignored, after which \"the North's side opened fire, directly aiming at our ship. Then our ship responded by firing back, forcing the North Korean boat to return to the north [\u2026] \"There were no casualties on our side. We are on the lookout for any further provocations by the North.\"\nAccording to a JCS spokesman their high-speed naval boat damaged the North Korean patrol boat. \"It wasn't a close-range battle. We fired heavily on the North Korean vessel,\" said a navy official to the Yonhap news agency. \"It is our initial assessment that the North Korean boat suffered considerable damage.\"\nNorth Korea states however that their vessel was in the area to confirm \"an unidentified object\" on their side of the border. Whilst returning, South Korean ships pursued and fired upon it in what they call \"grave armed provocation\".\nDisputed border.\nThe United Nations drew up the NLL at the end of of the Korean war in 1953, but North Korea has never recognised it, wanting it to be moved farther south. Last month it said that South Korea was deliberately sending navy vessels into the area to heighten tensions and that \"reckless military provocations\" could bring about armed clashes.\nSkirmishes have occurred in the past at the line including two deadly incidents in 1999 which resulted in the sinking of a North Korean vessel and another in 2002 when 4 South Korean sailors and 30 North Korean sailors were killed in a battle that lasted 20 minutes.\nTiming.\nThe clash comes shortly ahead of President Barack Obama's visit to Asia and talks between North Korean and the United States about military disarmament and nuclear weapons."}
{"id": "143935", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143935", "title": "Article/143934/Korean navies exchange fire", "text": ""}
{"id": "143937", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143937", "title": "Article/143874/Vitaly Ginzburg, Russian academician and physicist, dies at age 94", "text": ""}
{"id": "143941", "revid": "180829", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143941", "title": "South African police officer kills three year old boy", "text": "A police officer in South Africa has allegedly shot dead a three year old boy after he reportedly thought the child was holding a gun. According to reports, Atlegang Aphane, aged three, was travelling in a car being driven by suspected criminals when he was shot by the policeman, who reportedly thought that a pipe the child was carrying was a firearm.\nSpokesman Moses Dlamini from the Independent Complaints Directorate said to the BBC that no pipe or firearm had been found in the car. The family of the victim also released a statement saying the police officer showed \u201cno remorse\u201d for the shooting. The officer in question remains in custody after being charged with murder. \nThe South African Police Commission has condemned the shooting. South African President Jacob Zuma had previously said he wants the police to \u201cget tough\u201d with criminals, but not to be \u201ctrigger-happy\u201d."}
{"id": "143949", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143949", "title": "Ousted Thai PM arrives in Cambodia to take up government post", "text": "Former Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra arrived today in Cambodia where he will take up a post as the government's economic advisor. The appointment has caused a diplomatic incident between the two countries, as Shinawatra was condemned to two years in jail \"in absentia\" for corruption.\nTension is already mounting, with the Thai government expressing both anger and embarrassment over the appointment. They have withdrawn their ambassador and have decided to cancel plans with the Cambodian government for trade and oil exploration. This comes amidst disputes over the Preah Vihear temple complex which spans both countries. Thailand has further threatened to close borders with its neighbour.\nThaksin will address 300 Cambodian economics experts on Thursday in Phnom Penh and is expected to remain \"two or three days\" according to Cambodian cabinet spokesman Phay Siphan. \"It is an honour for Cambodia's economic sector and we hope that Cambodians nationwide welcome him warmly,\" he announced.\nCambodian information minister Khieu Kanharith also welcomed Thaksin. \"We are looking forward to learning from Thaksin's great economic experience and we are convinced that his experience will contribute to our country's economic development,\" he said.\nA coup in 2006 ousted Thaksin after members of parliament defected during military rule. Since then he has been in exile, mostly living in Dubai. He is still influential in Thailand, using protests by the Red Shirts, and the Thai government fears that Thaksin will use Cambodia as base to campaign.\nHowever, Thaksin published a letter on his website on Monday indicating that he did not intend to \"go to Cambodia to help Cambodia fight with Thailand [...] As I travel to Cambodia to discuss poverty and the world economic situation, I will try to preserve Thai interests with our friends in Phnom Penh, despite the Thai government still hounding me wherever I go,\" he stated.\nCambodia has made it clear that they will not extradite Thaksin. Cambodian foreign ministry spokesman Koy Kuong said that regarding the jail sentence they are \"not concerned about these issues [...] We already clarified this case because he is a political victim.\" "}
{"id": "143952", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143952", "title": "Bomb hits northwestern Pakistan; at least 30 killed", "text": "A suicide car bomb attack in northwestern Pakistan has killed at least 30 people, including some children.\nInvestigators say the bomb exploded Tuesday on a busy street near a market in the city of Charsadda, 40 kilometers north of Peshawar. The blast wounded dozens of people and destroyed several buildings.\n\"The death toll has gone up to 32 and more than 100 people have been wounded in this suicide attack,\" said Bashir Bilour, the Senior Minister of North West Frontier Province. \nHazrat Ali, a shopkeeper, was a witness to the event. He recounted his experiences to the Agence France-Presse news agency. \"I was buying something before closing my shop. A car was parked on the other side of the road and all of a sudden there was a huge blast. There was smoke and darkness everywhere. I passed out.\" Ali sustained shrapnel injuries to his forehead and torso.\nThis was the third bombing in the area in three days. On Monday, a suicide bomber in a rickshaw blew himself up at a checkpoint in Peshawar, killing three people. A suicide bomber killed thirteen people in a crowded market outside the city on Sunday. "}
{"id": "143953", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143953", "title": "NATO, Afghan police seize 250 tons of suspected bomb-making material", "text": "NATO has said 250 tons of suspected bomb-making material has been seized in a raid in the city of Kandahar, a Taliban stronghold in southern Afghanistan.\nMilitary officials say Afghan National Police and NATO forces recovered 227 kilograms of ammonium nitrate fertilizer and 5,000 components used to make roadside bombs in the raid on Sunday, on a warehouse in Kandahar. \nA NATO statement today noted that fifteen people were detained in the raid and 4,000 bags of fertilizer were found in a nearby compound.\n\"This find will undoubtedly save many lives and points to the increasing capability of the Afghan national security forces,\" said a spokesman for the NATO International Security Assistance Force, Lieutenant Colonel Todd Vician, in a statement.\nAmmonium nitrate fertilizer is a key ingredient for making explosives and is often found in roadside bombs."}
{"id": "143954", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143954", "title": "Article/143949/Ousted Thai PM arrives in Cambodia to take up government post", "text": ""}
{"id": "143956", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143956", "title": "Two Kenyans kidnapped by gunmen in Somalia now released", "text": "Two Kenyans who were seized by armed gunmen at a market in Somalia's capital Mogadishu were released today, according to reports.\nThe Kenyans, workers of the printing agency Hamar Adde, had been taken from the Bakara market, the biggest trading centre in the Somali capital, at gunpoint on Sunday. Eyewitnesses said that two Somalis in the company of the Kenyans were kidnapped as well, but later were soon released.\n\"They are safe [...] We gave them a vacation,\" said the manager of the Hamar Adde printing company, Abdukar Ali, where the kidnapped men are employed. He added that the two Kenyans have flown back to Nairobi.\nKidnappings, frequently targeting aid workers and foreigners, are commonplace in Somalia. The country has not had a stable government since 1991, when warlords ousted former leader Siad Barre in a coup."}
{"id": "143967", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143967", "title": "Article/143953/NATO, Afghan police seize 250 tons of suspected bomb-making material", "text": ""}
{"id": "143973", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143973", "title": "German football goalkeeper Robert Enke is dead", "text": "According to the Hannover Police Department, German international football goalkeeper Robert Enke died in the early evening yesterday. Enke had been crossing a railway at Neustadt-Eilvese and was killed by a train. Initial police investigations indicate suicide. The death of the 32-year-old soccer player from Hannover 96 has shocked the football world.\nEnke's daughter died in 2006 when she just two years old. There is speculation that personal problems led to Enke's suicide.\nEnke started his career in Jena and first represented his country in 1998 whilst playing for Borussia M\u00f6nchengladbach. He won eight full international caps for the German national team since 2007 and was part of the squad which finished as runners-up in UEFA Euro 2008. He was widely considered to be a strong contender for the number one spot at the 2010 World Cup."}
{"id": "143980", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143980", "title": "Article/143941/South African police officer kills three year old boy", "text": ""}
{"id": "143983", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143983", "title": "Article/143952/Bomb hits northwestern Pakistan; at least 30 killed", "text": ""}
{"id": "143997", "revid": "7186", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=143997", "title": "Massive power failure hits Brazil", "text": "A massive power blackout in southern Brazil left tens of millions of people without power, with residents in major cities like Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo affected. Police called in extra officers and asked people to stay off the street when the Itaipu hydroelectric plant failed at 10:15 pm local time Tuesday (0015 GMT Wednesday) and plunged the affected areas into darkness.\nThe electric plant supplies the regions of Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Rio de Janeiro, Goi\u00e1s, Rio Grande do Sul, Paran\u00e1, and Esp\u00edrito Santo, as well as 90% of neighbouring Paraguay, which was almost completely without power for fifteen minutes. Brazilian Energy Minister Edson Lobao stated that the cause of the \"complete paralysis\" of the plant was not yet known, but put forward a theory that lightning may have caused the high-tension supply lines to short out.\nAlthough this is not the first time that Brazil has had power outages, with severe loss of electricity in 2001, 2005 and 2007, radio station Bandnews estimated that 50 million people\u2014a quarter of Brazil's population\u2014were affected, one of the largest outages in recent history.\nA few hours after the power cut, the hydroelectric plant came back on line and the affected regions gradually regained power, allowing the areas in chaos caused by lack of traffic lights and power to underground railways to return to normal, and residents to put out their candles."}
{"id": "144000", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144000", "title": "Article/143956/Two Kenyans kidnapped by gunmen in Somalia now released", "text": ""}
{"id": "144003", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144003", "title": "Public access to information on emissions from European industries", "text": "A comprehensive new European pollutant release and transfer register named E-PRTR was launched by the European Commission and the European Environment Agency (EEA). Data from 91 substances had been collected to show the quantity and location of pollution of air, water and land by about 24.000 industrial facilities throughout Europe. Additional information have been presented like the amount and types of waste which is being transferred from one country to another. All data and information concerning the year 2007 and are available via Internet. For example it covers 76 % of total sulfur oxides emissions to air in the 27 EU members states and Norway. E-PRTR shows that five large combustion plants were collectively responsible for more than 20 % of all sulfur oxide emissions to air.\nEnvironment Commissioner Stavros Dimas said: \"Transparency is a vital tool for improving our environment. I welcome the opening of this register. It demonstrates a genuine commitment by the public authorities and industry to share information with citizens and increase openness. I thank them for their cooperation.\"\nProfessor Jacqueline McGlade, Executive Director of the European Environment Agency, said: \"To achieve the public participation objective set by the Aarhus Convention, people first need to know what is happening to their environment and what is at stake. With this new register, we take an important step in placing more environmental information at their fingertips. Anyone can now see how much pollution is being released to air and water from facilities in their neighbourhood or region.\""}
{"id": "144008", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144008", "title": "Article/143997/Massive power failure hits Brazil", "text": ""}
{"id": "144020", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144020", "title": "Article/143973/German football goalkeeper Robert Enke is dead", "text": ""}
{"id": "144024", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144024", "title": "Three more scientists resign from UK ACMD drugs advisory council", "text": "In the wake of the sacking of Professor David Nutt as chairman of the United Kingdom's Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) by Home Secretary Alan Johnson and the subsequent resignations of Dr Les King and Marion Walter, three more scientists have now resigned. This follows a meeting on Monday between the Council and Alan Johnson, at which the Council sought reassurances that the integrity of the Council would not be compromised. Prior to the meeting, the Council sent a letter to Mr Johnson to the effect that a majority of its membership was deeply concerned about the circumstances relating to and surrounding Professor Nutt's dismissal: \"For some members, these matters are of such seriousness as to raise the question whether they can, in good conscience, continue on the Council.\"\nThe scientists in question are the chemist, Dr Simon Campbell, a psychologist, Dr John Marsden and a pharmaceutical consultant, Ian Raglan. \nCommenting on his resignation on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Dr Campbell said \"I do not accept the reasons given for Professor Nutt's dismissal, I think that was a clash of personalities. I do not agree with the manner in which he was dismissed. Such an abrupt dismissal was a humiliation for such a respected scientist.\" \nThese resignations means that the ACMD is no longer constitutionally able to function and that six positions will need to be filled. There is a possibility that further resignations may occur as a number of the remaining members of the Council are reported to be unhappy with the prevailing situation, although many of those who do remain sit in the capacity of representatives of organisations with an interest. "}
{"id": "144029", "revid": "1536", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144029", "title": "3 more scientists resign from ACMD", "text": ""}
{"id": "144038", "revid": "180829", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144038", "title": "Washington, D.C. sniper John Allen Muhammad executed by lethal injection", "text": "John Allen Muhammad, the Washington, D.C. sniper spree killer, has been executed in Virginia. Muhammad was convicted for one of ten murders occurring between Oct. 9 and 22, 2002 in and around Washington, DC. Dean Harold Meyers was shot on the Oct. 9 by Muhammad. Lawyers for Muhammad appealed for a not plea on the reasons of him being mentality ill but the appeal was rejected. Muhammad was 48 at the time of execution.\nHe was executed at 02:11 GMT and the execution took 5 minutes. According to Larry Traylor of the Department of Corrections Muhammad remained quiet before and during the execution. His last meal was chicken in red sauce and strawberry cakes.\nBoth his lawyers and the state attorney appointed to represent Muhammad pleaded for the death penalty to be dropped. They reported that Muhammad was suffering from Gulf War syndrome.\nMuhammad and his accomplice Lee Boyd Malvo killed ten people in Washington D.C and Virginia. The pair had also been accused of murders in the states of Alabama, Louisiana and Arizona. Malvo is currently serving life imprisonment. Muhammad's execution was watched by several members of the victims' families."}
{"id": "144039", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144039", "title": "At least twenty dead after landslides in Tanzania", "text": "Four days of torrential rains in Tanzania caused landslides on Tuesday, killing at least twenty people in a village, among them seven schoolchildren. More people are also reported missing.\nThe regional commissioner for Kilimanjaro region, Monica Mbega, said to the Reuters news agency that twenty bodies were recovered from the village of Goha. She remarked that the torrential rains came after a period of prolonged drought.\n\"A landslide with a big chunk of mountain collapsed itself and came down and fell on about seven houses with about 32 families and about 25 people died. For these past two years there has been a drought, but for about four days there has been a lot of powerful rain,\" she said, noting that local residents think that there might be five more bodies to find.\nRescue efforts in Goha are ongoing."}
{"id": "144040", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144040", "title": "At least ten soldiers killed in Pakistan clashes", "text": "At least ten Pakistani soldiers have been killed in two incidents near the border with Afghanistan, the country's military said on Wednesday.\nPakistani officials reported that at least eight paramilitary soldiers died in a landmine explosion in the northwestern Mohmand tribal region. Separately, authorities said two soldiers were killed in clashes with militants in the same region, and at least eight soldiers are missing. Officials added ten suspected militants were killed after military attack helicopters shelled their hideouts.\nThe incidents took place a day after a suicide bomber rammed his explosives-laden car into a crowded market in northwestern Pakistan, killing about 30 people and wounding dozens. This comes as Pakistani armed forces are continuing an offensive against members in the South Waziristan region of the country."}
{"id": "144041", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144041", "title": "Pirates seize cargo ship in Indian Ocean", "text": "Somali pirates have seized a cargo vessel with 22 crew members. The Greek-owned MV Filitsa was hijacked on Wednesday in the Indian Ocean, several hundred kilometres northeast of the Seychelles islands.\nThe ship was carrying cargo from Kuwait to South Africa. The European Union's anti-piracy force Atalanta said the crew includes three Greeks and 19 Filipinos. The ship has turned around and is now heading north, Atalanta said. There were conflicting reports as to whether the vessel was seized 400 kilometres or 750 kilometres off of the Seychelles coast.\nThere are reports that Somali pirates have also hijacked a fishing boat, but identity of that vessel was not immediately clear.\nThe pirates have hijacked at least eight boats in the Indian Ocean since the start of October. They are holding at least a dozen ships overall, with more than 200 crew members. \nNaval forces from the United States, EU, NATO, and other world powers are patrolling the waters around Somalia trying to protect commercial shipping; however, the patrols appear to have had little impact on the pirates, who have focused their efforts on the vast Indian Ocean. Many hijackings have occurred near the Seychelles, a group of islands southeast of Somalia."}
{"id": "144042", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144042", "title": "Washington sniper John Allen Muhammad executed by lethal injection", "text": ""}
{"id": "144043", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144043", "title": "Illinois jury sentences Brian Dugan to death", "text": "A DuPage County, Illinois jury has sentenced Brian Dugan to death for the February 25, 1983, abduction, rape, and murder of ten-year-old Jeanine Nicarico from Naperville.\nThe jury has been empaneled for a six-week sentencing hearing to determine Dugan's eligibility for the death penalty. Closing arguments lasted for nearly six hours last Tuesday. The jury then deliberated for five hours until 10 pm, when the judge said that the jury had reached a verdict.\nThe jurors were then called into the courtroom, but in a surprising turn of events, the judge announced that the jury would like to continue deliberations. He sequestered them overnight, and deliberations continued Wednesday morning. The jury then announced that it had sentenced Dugan to death. He is now also suspected of committing four other murders. \nTwo men from Aurora, Alejandro Hernandez and Rolando Cruz, were first convicted of the crime on February 22, 1985. The jury deadlocked on Stephen Buckley, also from Aurora. On November 8 of that year, Dugan's lawyer revealed that his client, charged with the rape and murder of seven-year-old Melissa Ackerman of Somonauk, was also the lone murderer of Nicarico. Dugan was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murders of Melissa Ackerman and Donna Schnorr, a twenty-seven-year-old woman from Geneva.\nCharges against Buckley were subsequently dropped in March 5, 1987. On July 14, 1994, the Illinois Supreme Court overturned Cruz's conviction and ordered a new trial. Hernandez's conviction was later overturned as well. A judge acquitted Cruz of the crime on November 3, 1995, and charges against Hernandez were later dismissed.\nRefinements in DNA testing allowed law enforcement officials to narrow down the list of suspects. In 2002, DuPage County State's Attorney Joe Birkett stated that DNA certainly proved that Dugan was involved in the murder. He was charged in November 29, 2005, and pleaded guilty on July 18 of this year."}
{"id": "144044", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144044", "title": "Scientists find key human language gene", "text": "Researchers have found a crucial genetic difference between humans and chimps that could help explain our language and speech abilities. The difference lies in a gene called FOXP2 which encodes for a protein of the same name. This acts as a transcription factor, controlling the activity of other genes.\nThe human and chimp versions of the protein differ in only two of their 740 amino acid components, but when researchers at the University of California, Los Angeles, replaced the human gene with the chimp version in neurons grown in the laboratory, they found it affected the expression of at least 116 other genes.\nThe results are detailed in a paper published on Thursday in the scientific journal \"Nature\".\nAuthor of the study Dr. Daniel Geschwind, of the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, said the gene had a \"major role\" in differences between chimps and humans. \"We showed that the human and chimp versions of FOXP2 not only look different but function differently too.\"\nSome of the affected genes control the formation of connections in the brain, whilst others relate to facial movements. Several have already been found to be involved in language disorders. Mutations in FOXP2 itself were also known to affect speech and language; the gene was first identified in members of a family suffering from language problems who were found to share a genetic mutation.\nFrances Vargha-Khadem at University College London has studied patients with FOXP2 mutations, and agrees with the new research. As well as language problems, some of her subjects have changes in the shape of their jaws, mouths and tongues. She thinks that chimps may also have these differences.\n\"We believe FOXP2 is not only important for the higher order cognitive aspect of language but also for the motor aspect of speech and language,\" said Genevieve Konopka, one of the authors of the paper at UCLA.\nPrevious research indicates that the changes in FOXP2 occurred around 200,000 years ago with the rise of modern humans. Geschwind also suggests that several of the related genes may have evolved together. Preliminary studies have shown signs that they too emerged relatively recently.\nScientists are now keen to further study FOXP2 and the genes that it affects. Geschwind believes this could eventually lead to breakthroughs in treatment for disorders such as autism and schizophrenia, which affect language skills.\nThe study was funded by the National Institute of Mental Health, the A.P. Giannini Foundation and the National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression."}
{"id": "144045", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144045", "title": "Article/144041/Pirates seize cargo ship in Indian Ocean", "text": ""}
{"id": "144047", "revid": "140191", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144047", "title": "Article/144003/Public access to information on emissions from European industries", "text": ""}
{"id": "144049", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144049", "title": "Scientists find human language gene", "text": ""}
{"id": "144050", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144050", "title": "Article/144044/Scientists find key human language gene", "text": ""}
{"id": "144052", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144052", "title": "Article/144024/Three more scientists resign from UK ACMD drugs advisory council", "text": ""}
{"id": "144053", "revid": "11752", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144053", "title": "Article/144038/Washington, DC sniper John Allen Muhammad executed by lethal injection", "text": ""}
{"id": "144058", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144058", "title": "Article/144039/At least twenty dead after landslides in Tanzania", "text": ""}
{"id": "144063", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144063", "title": "Article/144040/At least ten soldiers killed in Pakistan clashes", "text": ""}
{"id": "144071", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144071", "title": "Irish priest freed from month long captivity in the Philippines", "text": "Irish priest Father Michael Sinnott has been freed by the gunmen who abducted him one month ago. The 79-year-old was taken hostage from his mission office in the Philippines on the 11th of October. The released a statement saying they had not paid a ransom. Authorities believe that Father Sinnott was being held by the . \nFather Sinnott was based in at the time of his abduction but was originally from , Ireland. Irish Foreign Minister Miche\u00e1l Martin released a statement saying Father Sinnott\u2019s release was due to diplomatic efforts between the Irish and Filipino governments. \nIrish Brian Cowen expressed his delight at the release of Father Sinnott. There had been reports that a \u00a31.2 million ransom was being demanded by the hostage takers. \nFather Sinnott released a statement after his release saying that he was \u201ctreated very well\u201d by his hostage takers and that he would continue with his missionary work."}
{"id": "144073", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144073", "title": "Austrian students' protests expanding through Europe", "text": "A Europe-wide student movement, started in the Austrian capital of , is developing. It started on 28 October 2009 and met with the discussions following the in Germany on 15 October. For Tuesday 17 November \u2014 the 70th anniversary of the \u2014 a nationwide education strike in Germany has been announced. Radio reported in English about the demonstrations.\nSpeakers of the actions said, students are complaining that universities are underfunded and understaffed. The students' protest concerns the reforms and the tuition fees.\nOn Wednesday, 11 November some 600 students at the Free University of had occupied the largest auditorium of the central building of the humanities in the suburb of Dahlem. Afterwards actions took place in , and Basel, each with hundreds of participants. \nThe Potthoff building, a lecture hall of the has been occupied since Monday, 9 November. Actions also took place in , , , , and ."}
{"id": "144076", "revid": "180829", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144076", "title": "Judge known for jailing pirates shot dead in Bossaso, Somalia", "text": "A judge known for jailing pirates and Islamists in Somalia has been shot dead by gunmen. Sheik Mohamed Abdi Aware was shot in the head and chest by two masked men outside a mosque in Bossaso. \nAs well as being a High Court judge, Aware was also a member of Puntland\u2019s supreme judicial council. During his work in Bossaso, Aware had sentenced several Islamists, pirates and people smugglers. \nHis cousin Abdulahi Jama said to reporters: \"These gangs hate him for his justice. We suspect one of them may have something to do with his assassination\". Three people are in custody after being arrested.\nOn Wednesday, Ibrahim Elmi Warsame, a local member of parliament was shot dead as he sat in a tea shop. It was not immediately known if the shootings were related."}
{"id": "144077", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144077", "title": "Italian goalkeeper Carlo Cudicini seriously injured in motorcycle accident", "text": "Italian goalkeeper Carlo Cudicini has been seriously injured in a motorcycle accident in London. The player, who plays for Tottenham Hotspurs, was involved in a collision with a car at 10:30 GMT. The football club reported that he has fractured his wrists and injured his pelvis. \nA spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police released a statement saying \"A 36-year-old male suffered injuries described by the London Ambulance Service as possibly life-changing and was taken to Whipps Cross Hospital for further assessment and treatment\". No arrests have been made. \nCudicini crashed his motorcycle into a Ford Fiesta with a female driver and a child passenger. Neither the driver or passenger were injured in the accident. \nCudicini is the son of former AC Milan goalkeeper Fabio Cudicini. During his career he has played for Lazio, AC Milan and Chelsea. He played for Chelsea for 10 years until he was transferred to Tottenham in January. He made one appearance for the Italian national team. "}
{"id": "144078", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144078", "title": "Irish priest freed from hostage after one month in Philippines", "text": ""}
{"id": "144079", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144079", "title": "Mozambican opposition rejects election results, calls for another vote", "text": "Mozambique's main opposition party has rejected the results of last month's national elections, alleging fraud and ballot-stuffing. Official results were released on Wednesday confirming that President Armando Guebuza had won another term in office.\nThe secretary-general of the opposition Renamo Party, Ussufo Momade, announced his party's rejection of the election results, saying there had been widespread fraud. \"We do not recognize these elections,\" he stated. \"We demand the cancellation of the results that were just announced and we insist on a new vote.\"\nThe National Electoral Commission said Wednesday that Guebuza had received more than 75% of the valid votes cast two weeks ago. \"The National Electoral Commission declares that Armando Emilio Guebuza has been elected president of the Republic of Mozambique for five years,\" the commission stated.\nThe president's Frelimo Party also won 191 of the 250 seats in parliament.\nBefore the elections, Frelimo had 160 seats and Renamo 90. Frelimo has been in power since 1975, when Mozambique declared independence from Portugal. \nRenamo's candidate, Afonso Dhlakama, received 16% of the vote, while the leader of a new party, Daviz Simango of the Mozambique Democratic Movement (MDM), received 8%. Sixteen other parties were also in contention for parliament seats, but none of them received more than one percent of the vote.\nFrelimo, which has a two-thirds majority in the parliament, has a sufficient number of seats to alter the constitution without support from other parties. There has been some speculation that Frelimo may use this to allow Guebuza to run for a third term - currently, the constitution allows a president to serve only two terms in office.\nSenior Frelimo party members, however, promised that Guebuza had no intention of seeking another term. \"The majority in parliament will give us more freedom to choose what is best for Mozambican people. Frelimo has always worked on benefit of people. And that is what we will continue to do in the next mandate,\" said Frelimo election officer Veronica Macamo.\nSoon after the election results were announced, Renamo alleged that there had been widespread ballot-stuffing in some districts, and that its observers had been expelled from others. The MDM also protested, saying ballots had been tampered with at some stations, and produced a cell phone video showing election officials apparently tampering with ballots. The party also made a list of alleged voting irregularities, which was given to media and election observers.\nLeading Renamo member Joaquim Marungo said his party will present evidence of the alleged rigging and seek that the results of the vote be annulled. \"What we had were no elections because Frelimo is actually a player and a referee at the same time. In our electoral law which was passed in 2007, actually, we were excluded from all major decision bodies like the CNE [National Election Commission,\" Marungo remarked, as quoted by VOA News.\nHe also rejected the electoral body's verdict that the poll was credible. \"What the CNE is saying is what Frelimo tells them to say. But what the international community didn't know is that those polling station agents were actually recruited to stuff the ballot boxes. If that was not the case, why did they arrest most of our polling station watchers? That is exactly to create the opportunity for them to do the stuffing,\" he said.\nAn observation consortium of religious and civic groups conducted a parallel tabulation of the vote in eight percent of the stations nationwide. The group said there were indications of irregularities in six percent of the voting stations.\nVoter turnout nationwide was 45%, but some stations reported a turnout of 95% or more, raising suspicions that there was ballot stuffing involved. Other voting stations reported a turnout of 15% or less. Many ballots were disqualified because they had a check-mark beside the face of one candidate, but a fingerprint beside the face of another. Some observers concluded that such fraud might have affected the outcome in one of the contests for parliament, and several of those for the provincial assemblies.\nMost international observers, however, had deemed the elections fair and free, although there had been some criticism that the electoral commission had disqualified MDM candidates for all but four provincial assemblies on technical grounds.\n\"The pre-election phase was characterized by peaceful, tolerant and yet enthusiastic political atmosphere. There was clear evidence of vigor and enthusiasm among political parties as they conducted their campaigns,\" said the South African Development Community (SADC), which sent 98 observers to oversee the elections.\n\"The observer mission was impressed by the patience of voters who were able to express their franchise peacefully, freely and unhindered. It is, therefore, SEOM [SADC Election Observer Mission]'s overall view that the elections were conducted in an open and peaceful manner,\" it added.\nThe national elections commission stated that no official complaints of voting irregularity were submitted to them. \"Political parties have two days after the voting day to present complaints or proof of irregularities. We did not receive any complaints during this period,\" said the chairman of Mozambique's National Elections Commission, Leopoldo da Costa.\nFelizeberto Nice, director general of the technical secretariat of the CNE, also dismissed the opposition's claims and asserted that the election was credible. \"It is quite difficult to accept this kind of declaration because all the processes were followed [...] so the process was very, very transparent and everybody was able to see what was happening,\" Nice said."}
{"id": "144082", "revid": "206860", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144082", "title": "British Airways and Iberia agree to merge", "text": "British Airways and Spain's Iberia airline have announced plans to merge. The merger is valued at \u00a35.5 billion (US$9 billion dollars), and would create the third largest airline in the world.\nThe new company will be headed up by BA's Willie Walsh with the board led by Iberia's Antonio Vazquez. Shares are split 55% to 45% respectively, with each BA share being exchanged for a share in the new firm and each Iberia share worth 1.0205 shares in the new firm, to be registered in Spain with head offices in London.\nA statement said the deal \"is expected to generate annual synergies of approximately 400 million euros, and benefit both companies\u2019 shareholders, customers and employees.\" It also stated Iberia may yet call off the plan \"if the outcome of the discussions between British Airways and its pension trustees is not, in Iberia\u2019s reasonable opinion, satisfactory.\" Subject to this, as well as shareholder and trustee consent, the merger is planned to be completed by next year.\nThe European Union is also required to approve. The EU has already warned the duo off from forming a transatlantic flight alliance with American Airlines, saying it would breach antitrust law. The trio still want to win approval for the plan to operate as one unit for flights to Mexico, Canada and the US. The possibility of a merger deal has been public since July, and may result in cost reductions. Iberia's six-month figures are expected tomorrow; BA has already reported a record \u00a3217 million loss.\nBritish Airways is the United Kingdom's flag carrier and currently the third-largest carrier in Europe. The largest is Air France-KLM, formed in 2004 when Air France spent 700 million euros to acquire KLM Royal Dutch Airlines. That firm also owns 25% of Italian flag carrier Alitalia. This is followed by Lufthansa, who have acquired Swiss International Air Lines, Austrian Airlines and British Midland Airways. Lufthansa partially owns Belgian flag carrier Brussels Airlines.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "144083", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144083", "title": "Article/144076/Judge known for jailing pirates shot dead in Bossaso, Somalia", "text": ""}
{"id": "144089", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144089", "title": "DuPage County jury sentences Brian Dugan to death", "text": ""}
{"id": "144091", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144091", "title": "Blown for Good author discusses life inside international headquarters of Scientology", "text": "\"Wikinews\" interviewed author Marc Headley about his new book \"Blown for Good\", and asked him about life inside the international headquarters of Scientology known as \"Gold Base\", located in Gilman Hot Springs near Hemet, California. Headley joined the organization at age seven when his mother became a member, and worked at Scientology's international management headquarters for several years before leaving in 2005.\nBackground.\n\"Blown for Good\" was released November 5, and is available at www.blownforgood.com. Headley worked as an employee of Scientology for 15 years. While an employee of the Scientology headquarters located in Riverside County, California, Headley had the experience of practicing Scientology counseling services called \"auditing\" with Scientologist Tom Cruise, shortly after the actor had completed work on the film \"Days of Thunder\". In 1990, Cruise was training to become proficient in the Scientology auditing techniques, and Headley was selected to become the actor's auditing partner. Cruise and Headley worked together for three weeks, while the actor was practicing his Scientology techniques known as the \"Upper Indoctrination Training Routines\". Headley says he was chosen to work with Cruise because he was a young staff member who was less likely to leave and discuss the actor's Scientology experiences with the media.\nThe book provides details of what life was like for the author inside the organization's headquarters. The inner flap of the book includes a map of the \"International Headquarters of Scientology; Gilman Hot Springs, California\". Headley writes that under the direction of Scientology leader David Miscavige, employees who signed billion-year contracts routinely put in 100-hour weeks of work for minimal pay. According to Headley, possible discipline faced by the Scientology employees for perceived mistakes included being separated from family as part of the Scientology policy of \"disconnection\", being declared a \"suppressive person\", or being sent to the \"Rehabilitation Project Force\", a program where Scientologists were assigned harsh labor.\nHeadley's tasks while working at the Scientology compound Gold Base included dealing with audiovisual equipment used for organization presentations and speeches by Miscavige, and supervising production of thousands of audiotapes of lectures given by Scientology's founder L. Ron Hubbard. From 1989 to 2005 Headley worked at the Scientology film production studio on scripts for movies which would be used to instruct new members of the organization on its practices. He faced repercussions from Miscavige if he could not meet production quotas. Headley asserts that he was physically abused by Miscavige, a claim made previously by other former Scientology officials in a series of investigative articles published in the \"St. Petersburg Times\".\nThe book gives background on a 9-minute long video of Tom Cruise, leaked to the Internet in January 2008, that featured the actor discussing his views on Scientology. The Church of Scientology's attempts to remove the leaked video from the Internet motivated the group Anonymous to focus its efforts against the organization. Headley writes that initially the promotional video about Cruise was supposed to feature celebrities including Will Smith speaking about the actor, but Miscavige instead insisted Cruise should simply talk about himself. According to Headley, Scientology employees were made to watch videos of Cruise which had been spliced together from the actor's appearances in the media. \nHeadley describes a form of Miscavige's management previously related in the \"St. Petersburg Times\", where the Scientology leader made his staff play musical chairs to the \"Queen\" song \"Bohemian Rhapsody\". Miscavige told 70 Scientology executives that they were to compete for chairs, and that only the last individual left after several rounds would remain at the compound, while the other executives would be assigned to remote locations. After a dramatic competition with multiple staffers in tears that they would be separated from their families, Miscavige stated no one would be removed from the compound.\nIn 2005, Headley left the Scientology compound in Hemet on a motorcycle, and fell off his vehicle after being chased by Scientology security guards. Riverside County police helped Headley escape from the Scientology security. Headley traveled to Kansas City to meet his father. He was later joined by his wife Claire who had also worked at the Gold Base compound.\nHeadley filed suit against Scientology in January 2009. In the legal case, he asserts that Scientology violated United States labor law with regard to his treatment while an employee of the organization. Headley and his lawyer Barry Van Sickle succeeded against attempts by the organization to get the suit dismissed. Headley's lawsuit is set to begin in U.S. federal court in November 2010.\nAmerican talk radio hosts John Kobylt and Ken Chiampou discussed the book on the November 4 edition of their program \"The John and Ken Show\" on KFI. \"This is, the Scientology cult, is I guarantee you, a thousand times more bizarre than you could have ever imagined. And what these celebrities do, like Tom Cruise, is a thousand times more strange than you could ever imagine. I have never read about behavior like this in my life, I can't imagine it. It's really weird,\" commented one of the hosts about material revealed by Headley in the book. Headley writes in the book that he started to question his involvement in Scientology when secretly listening to \"The John and Ken Show\" and watching Conan O'Brien make fun of Scientology celebrities. \"The National Enquirer\" reported on the release of \"Blown for Good\", calling it an \"explosive new book\".\nThe Editor in chief of \"The Village Voice\", Tony Ortega, reviewed the book, and characterized it as a \"remarkable account\". \"Headley's book also provides stunning material that has rarely been collected in one place, even with the Internet's deep resources on L. Ron Hubbard's strange creation. Headley's story provides a damning account of life working for Scientology leader David Miscavige at the secretive desert base\", wrote Ortega in the review. He commented, \"Perhaps the best service that Headley provides with \"Blown for Good\" is giving non-Scientologists the sense of what it's really like to work, day in and day out, in such a strange organization, from the lowliest laborer mucking out excrement in a Gold Base pond (Headley says shit was coming out of his ears and pores for days) to what kind of luxuries the celebrities and high-ranking members enjoy.\"\nInterview.\n\"' The foreword to \"Blown for Good\" is by Mark Rathbun, a former high-ranking Scientology official and recent critic who has gone public with statements that Scientology's leader David Miscavige has been physically abusive towards organization staff members. Rathbun notes that he almost emailed you to suggest someone else write the foreword, commenting, \"his views of some of Scientology founder Hubbard's writings and my views differed greatly.\" (L. Ron Hubbard was the founder of Scientology.) How do your views differ from Rathbun's? Why did you select Mark Rathbun to write the foreword to your book?\nMarc Headley: While I respect the right for people to believe whatever they want, I myself do not believe that L. Ron Hubbard did anything besides take what other people had already written and revised or repacked it for his own use. \nIn terms of the space aliens and earth people being inhabited by alien souls held captive in volcanoes from 75 million years ago \u2013 75 million years is a long time to go without visiting, calling or just generally staying in touch. If they had the technology to travel from their own galaxy in spaceships that resembled DC-10\u2019s and drop off millions of beings here, you think they would have come back a few times to check in on these guys. What\u2019s up with that?\nWhile I can respect other people\u2019s beliefs and I mean no disrespect to any other faiths, I am more likely to subscribe to the 72 virgins philosophy than the idea that I or anyone should drop a huge amount of cash to rid myself of rogue space aliens squatting within my soul. \nI asked Mark Rathbun to do the foreword for a few different reasons. The first being that he was one of the few people that was there for pretty much the entire time period I worked at the international headquarters. He witnessed and was privy to many of the things that I write about in the book. While we do not subscribe to the same ideas on what is wrong or right about Scientology, we both agree on the truth of what happened where we worked. He also has the respect of many current and former employees/members of organized Scientology who knew him as a high ranking official within the organization, and his endorsement of the book will do a lot to expose the abuse and false information within their ranks internationally. \n You write in the \"Author's note\" preface to the book that it took you over a year after leaving to be able to begin to speak publicly about your experiences in Scientology. What was that year-long process like? What experiences did you have that helped you come to the decision that you wanted to speak publicly about Scientology?\nMH: I think that living in the real world, with absolutely no ties or communication with the Scientology world I lived in from the age of 7, was the best thing I could do to decompress and brought me to realize what was actually occurring in the world around me. As an employee of Scientology for 15 years, we were indoctrinated with the concept that people outside of Scientology were criminals, drug addicts and sexual deviants in need of salvation and rescue by Scientology. The overriding goal of ALL Scientologists is to \u201cClear the planet and make everyone in the entire world into a Scientologist\u201d. After I left and was interacting with everyday people, I realized that not one single person in the real world treated me as bad as the \u201cnicest\u201d person in Scientology! People in the real world were nice, helpful and supportive of me and were very happy to be my friends and fellow associates. \n You also write in the preface that your intention of publishing your experiences was to help readers, \"avoid falling prey to any organization that might attempt to perpetrate similar abuses against them or someone they love in the future.\" What specific types of abuses are you referring to? Do you see commonalities between Scientology and other organizations? If so, which organizations, and what common characteristics do they share?\nMH: From what I have read and studied, Scientology is not the only group that uses coercion or heavy handed tactics to convince their members or staff to do things against their will. If people are aware of their rights and that they cannot sign them away, groups or cults that practice this will have less of a chance at succeeding. \nWhen asked to compare what I experienced at the headquarters of Scientology, the only thing that I could liken it to would be what I would imagine that people living behind the Iron Curtain felt. No disrespect to anyone who had to go through that experience, but those people had little choice in the matter and escape could be not only dangerous but fatal. That wall was torn down 20 years ago. I can only hope that it does not take 20 years to tear down the iron curtain that exists in Gilman Hot Springs, California. \n The book begins with an account of your experience leaving Scientology's Gold Base facility on January 5, 2005. Did you suffer any injuries as a result of this ordeal? Have you had any further communications with the police that assisted you that day?\nMH: Well, I think that when I was run off the road by the Scientology Security personnel, I had so much adrenaline pumping that even if I had sustained any minor injuries, I was willing to just do whatever I had to in order to successfully escape their control. \n Upon your arrival at the international headquarters of Scientology, you recount how you were given a course where you were instructed that no one was allowed to tell family, friends, or other Scientology staff members that Scientology's \"Int Base\" was located in Hemet, California (p. 91). Further, you write that no one outside the facility was to know that Scientology international management was located there. Do you know if this is still the case, or has current practice changed with regard to what outsiders are allowed to know about Gold Base?\nMH: As far as I know, no internal policies have changed since I have left. \n Another one of the instructions you write that you received upon arrival at Gold Base was that all outgoing mail would be read by Scientology security staff. Did this apply to incoming mail as well?\nMH: Yes, ALL OUTGOING and INCOMING mail is not only logged, but also opened, checked and read by security personnel. Additionally, bank records or credit card information is culled for account numbers, and personal data or information that would be useful to track the person should they decide to leave the compound is kept on file and regularly updated. \n Do you know whether or not this practice is in compliance with United States federal law regarding delivery of mail to its intended recipient?\nMH: As far as I know, it is a federal offense to tamper with a person\u2019s mail. The only place I know that mail can be checked like that is State or Federal prisons. \n According to your account of those that live on Gold Base itself (p. 138), the facility's residents included David Miscavige, three other high-ranking officials in the organization, security guards, and other residents, totaling 14 people excluding the security guards. Are you aware that Scientology requested the since-passed Ordinance 884 in Riverside County, California, specifically to restrict protesters away from residential property - and claimed that Golden Era Productions is such a property? You write in the book that the majority of Gold Base employees actually live offsite in apartments. Do you know how many individuals currently reside on Gold Base itself? \nMH: During the entire 15 years that I was there it was always the plan of Scientology officials to have ALL Int Base staff live on the property in communal housing. As far I know, these buildings have now been built and all employees that work at the Int Base also now live there, limiting not only their contact with the outside world but chances of ever escaping the facility. In fact, one of the reasons construction of these buildings was considered a priority while I was there was just that \u2013 keeping the staff housed on the property makes it that much harder for them to escape.\n Is Scientology's characterization from the Ordinance 884 proceedings, describing Gold Base as residential and containing private homes, appropriate in nature? Ordinance 884 is intended to keep protesters more than 50 feet away from property lines of residences. Are there residential housing buildings within 50 feet inside the property lines of Gold Base?\nMH: I have never measured it out, but most of the housing that exists on the property is located in the \u201cberthing buildings\u201d section of the property. From what I remember these buildings are at least 100 feet or more from the highway. There [are] main production buildings located directly next to the highway all along the property lines. During my 15 years working there I spent many a night sleeping on the floor in my office and witnessed many others doing the same or sleeping under their desks for a few hours each night. Maybe that qualifies those buildings as \u201chousing\u201d based on that. \n The book's title is a reference to the Scientology term to \"blow\", defined in the glossary of the book as \"any unauthorized departure from any Scientology organization.\" What steps are taken once the individual who had decided to leave is located? Has physical force been used in the past to bring individuals back? What other means have been used to attempt to bring people back to the organization?\nMH: I would say that a very large percentage of staff that blow are recovered or at least a recovery is attempted. I know of many other staff that were restrained from leaving, or assaulted when being recovered or thrown into vehicles and brought back to the compound against their will. Stories that corroborate this are all over the internet and many people have spoken out against this abuse. Unfortunately, for most people the fear that they have of the Scientology organization takes years to wear off and by the time people come forward, it is too late, legally, for anything to be done about it by law enforcement. \n You describe an elaborate scheme to get your wife Claire to join you, after she informed you that she wished to leave Gold Base (p. 322-25). This plan included avoiding use of phones known to Scientology, calling for a taxi under a different name, and calling friends from pay phones. Would it not have simply been easier for her to have contacted the local police for assistance, as they had done previously with you? To put it more simply - why the need for individuals who wish to leave Gold Base to orchestrate an escape to plan how they will \"blow\"? Could they not simply call the police using a phone, either from the facility itself or elsewhere, and request assistance to leave the organization?\nMH: When you are in that world, you are indoctrinated into believing that the worst thing you could do would be to get law enforcement involved. The Scientology organization has been doing this for years. Any stories about abuse, being held against one\u2019s will or anything else that goes on there would be met with declarations and affidavits from a hundred people that nothing ever happened. And then after that, they would restrict you to the property with a personal security guard assigned, put you on heavy manual labor, subject you to months or years of interrogation and ultimately declare you a suppressive person anyway and throw you out on your ass. Think \"WestWorld\" meets \"1984\" meets \"The Truman Show\". \nMore practically, it is well known to staff on the property that Security has a police scanner in the main security booth. So they would be alerted to the situation before the police even showed up, and would rapidly concoct a diversion to ensure the staff member did not escape.\nIn the 15 years I was there, I knew and heard of hundreds of different ways staff attempted to escape. Not once did I hear of someone calling 911 and escaping. Most staff did not have open access to a phone. All base phones were for internal use only, and to call an external number you had to be patched through by the Receptionist, who would only do so if you had authorization.\n Do you know if individuals are being held at Gold Base against their will? What do you think would happen if individuals at Gold Base who wanted to leave - simply asked to be allowed to do so?\nMH: At one point in the book, this happened. People were asked if they wanted to leave, several people decided to take the offer. After lengthy interrogations and with lengthy legal documents signed with promises never to expose what occurred at the compound, they were allowed to leave with restrictions. \n You describe your experience in the book of receiving Scientology auditing from Tom Cruise (p. 111-15). You note that after your auditing with Cruise had completed a few months later, you were \"watched over\" to make sure \"out-tech\" had not occurred that your auditor could have been responsible for. What is \"out-tech\", and what would have happened if this was recognized to have occurred?\nIf I were to get into an accident of any kind, this would be investigated and all counseling records would be reviewed to determine if any processes or procedures were done incorrectly. This commonly occurs when scientologists become ill, get in a car accident or in the worst cases, die. \u201cOut tech\u201d is their reference to some considered violation of procedure, resulting in the person doing worse after counseling.\n Scientology has received quite a bit of attention in the media recently, from allegations of violence levied against David Miscavige by high-ranking former officials, to spokesman Tommy Davis abruptly leaving an interview with Martin Bashir on ABC News when the Xenu story was mentioned, to Scientology's conviction of fraud in France, and the defection of Academy Award-winning film director Paul Haggis.\nDo you think is aware of these developments? What about other celebrity Scientologists, for example or Kirstie Alley? Do you think these issues will affect the perceptions of celebrity Scientologists towards the organization? Why or why not?\nMH: While it is hard to say what these people do or do not know, I am sure that it is becoming harder and harder to field and answer questions regarding the criminal activities occurring within the Scientology world. \n\"' In a postcript, \"More books by Marc Morgan Headley\", you write \"Since escaping in 2005, both Marc and his wife Claire have been heavily \"fair gamed\" by Scientology and many attempts have been made to keep them from speaking out in regards to their experiences at the Int Base.\" \"Fair Game\" is a Scientology policy written by founder L.Ron Hubbard that states individuals declared \"Suppressive Person\" by the organization, \"May be deprived of property or injured by any means by any Scientologist without any discipline of the Scientologist. May be tricked, sued or lied to or destroyed.\" \"A Piece of Blue Sky\" author Jon Atack noted that in its appeal of the case \"Wollersheim v. Church of Scientology of California\", \"Scientology asserted that 'fair game' was a 'core practice of Scientology', and therefore protected as 'religious expression'.\" What do you mean when you write in the book that you and your wife have been \"fair gamed\" by Scientology\"? What actions has the organization taken to attempt to prevent you from speaking about your experiences at Gold Base? How have you and your wife dealt with this?\nMH: I have had private investigators camped outside my place of residence, follow me to the grocery store, follow me when I\u2019m dropping off my kids at school. \nScientology officials have held meetings with my friends, family and employees and spread lies about me, my wife and our activities. Ex-members have been threatened with disconnection from their immediate family if they had any contact with me. \nPeople that I knew that were already declared suppressive were offered to have their declares canceled if they turned over any information that would be helpful with blacklisting me or ruining my credibility or ability to work or make money. \nOne of my oldest friends (who is also a declared Suppressive Person by Scientology) was offered a \u201cdeal\u201d by Tommy Davis to be allowed to speak with his family again if he were to provide any information or details about my current life that could be used against me in my current legal case against Scientology. When they doctored a declaration from him and he refused to sign it, they canceled the deal with him, but still attempted to use the bogus declaration in legal proceedings with me. \nChild Protective Services were given a random phone call \u201ctip\u201d that my two children were being endangered and had to do a mandatory inspection at our house. The agent told us they had investigated the \u201ctip\u201d, that it was clearly false and advised us to be very careful as someone was obviously trying to create trouble for us. \nScientology management has even gone so far as to inform Scientology members that use FaceBook or MySpace social networking sites to spread false information to anyone listed as my friends and instruct them that they should \u201cdisconnect\u201d from me. \nPrivate Investigators tracked down and contacted persons that my wife had talked to and the broker she worked under in Real Estate and accused my wife of falsifying loan documents on someone she never did a loan for.\nWhen I traveled to Germany to speak to government officials regarding Scientology\u2019s abuses in the United State and abroad, Private Investigators banged on the door of my house early in the morning when my wife was alone with our children and harassed her, saying they\u2019d [been] sent by Scientology.\nDuring that same trip, private investigators showed up at my company warehouse and gave my employees false propaganda printed up by Scientology regarding me being an \u201canti-religious extremist\u201d. \nIf I were to list everything else that I have experienced with Scientology in regards to Fair Game, this site would possibly need to upgrade their storage capacity!\n\"' Are there any other points regarding \"Blown for Good\" or your experiences that you would like to elaborate or explain?\nI want to make sure that people know that the more people that speak out, the more that these things will be dealt with. The Scientology organization compares itself to other religions all the time. They state that they expect to be treated like other religions. Most mainstream religions in all countries of the world support the living wage or minimum wage for their employees and workers and publicly state this. If organized Scientology wants to be treated like other religions, they should cease the human rights abuses and take a hint from other groups and pay their employees for the work they perform. Maybe then, people would be able to LEAVE if they wanted to and not have the burden of being without family members, resources or the ability to buy a meal should they decide to terminate their employment with Scientology. \n\"' Mr. Headley, thank you for taking the time to participate in this interview with \"Wikinews\".\nSources.\n __NOEDITSECTION__"}
{"id": "144093", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144093", "title": "Irish priest freed from capture after one month in Philippines", "text": ""}
{"id": "144094", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144094", "title": "Article/144091/Blown for Good author discusses life inside international headquarters of Scientology", "text": ""}
{"id": "144095", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144095", "title": "Article/144079/Mozambican opposition rejects election results, calls for another vote", "text": ""}
{"id": "144098", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144098", "title": "Article/144077/Italian goalkeeper Carlo Cudicini seriously injured in motorcycle accident", "text": ""}
{"id": "144106", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144106", "title": "Two Azerbaijani bloggers jailed", "text": "Two Azerbaijani bloggers were sentenced to prison on Wednesday for \"hooliganism\", after posting a satirical video on allegations that the Government paid for twelve donkeys from Germany. In a ruling on Wednesday, blogger Adnan Hajizade received a sentence of two years and Emin Milli two and a half years. Both have been in prison since their arrest on July 8 for fighting in a cafe in Baku.\nThe video, posted on YouTube in July, depicts a donkey giving a news conference in the ex-Soviet Republic. The government claims that the two incidents are unrelated. However, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) have condemned the decision.\nHuman Rights Watch have called the sentences \"a step backward for free expression in Azerbaijan\" and want the Azerbaijani government to ensure that the bloggers' appeal considers if the charges were trumped up. \"There is a longstanding pattern of Azerbaijani officials filing trumped-up charges against journalists to punish them for critical or satirical comment,\" said Giorgi Gogia, Human Rights Watch's South Caucasus researcher. \"The case against Milli and Hajizade falls squarely in that pattern.\"\nOnnik Krikorian, himself a blogger, also says the government often uses similar tactics to silence critics, although usually journalists. \"Lots of countries in this region, including Armenia, continue to use Soviet-era practices and regulations to silence dissent. This 'hooliganism' charge is normally used to jail journalists. The only difference here, is that it happened to two young activists because of something posted on YouTube.\" he commented.\n\"Online media is becoming increasingly widespread in Azerbaijan, and the OL! youth movement used social and new media very efficiently and extensively. I think this case against Hajizade and Milli was pretty much a warning against youth activists from speaking out. I think that when you have oil, pressure [from the OSCE and the public] really doesn't have much effect.\" he added.\nThe two bloggers intend to appeal."}
{"id": "144109", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144109", "title": "Article/144082/British Airways and Iberia agree to merge", "text": ""}
{"id": "144119", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144119", "title": "Sarkozy makes Clint Eastwood's day; actor becomes &quot;L\u00e9gion d'honneur&quot; Commander", "text": "Yesterday, French President Nicolas Sarkozy appointed the American actor Clint Eastwood Commander of the (Legion of Honour). The country's Minister of Culture, many actors, and directors participated in events at the ceremony.\nIn February 2009 Eastwood was awarded a Golden Palm (Palme d'Or) in Paris for his life's work \u2014 an award usually only given at the annual . The internationally-renowned film star was born in San Francisco and described France in an interview as his second home. In 2007, then-President appointed him a Knight of the Order.\nWithin the L\u00e9gion d'honneur, founded on May 19, 1802 by , are five classes of orders in addition to Grand Master, but the ranking distinguishes only the three degrees of Knight (Chevalier), Officer and Commander (Commendatore). With his appointment as Commander, 79-year-old Eastwood skips the level of Officer."}
{"id": "144123", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144123", "title": "Afghanistan suicide attack wounds more than twenty", "text": "Afghan officials said more than twenty people have been wounded today in a suicide car bomb attack on a convoy of vehicles near Camp Phoenix, a US-run NATO military base in the capital of Kabul. The Taliban claimed responsibility for the bombing.\nNATO said nine of its soldiers and ten civilian contractors were among those wounded. It added that the rest of the casualties were bystanders, including several Afghans. \nAccording to NATO spokesman Kevin Bell, the attack happened at just before 08.00 local time, close to a checkpoint at the base. Camp Phoenix houses US soldiers that help train Afghan security forces.\nSeveral attacks have targeted international operations in the Afghan capital, Kabul, in recent months, including attacks on a UN guesthouse and the Indian embassy.\nThis year has been the deadliest for international troops in Afghanistan since the fall of the government in 2001."}
{"id": "144128", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144128", "title": "Illinois police departments try to reduce number of road fatalities this year", "text": "The Illinois Department of Transportation and Illinois State Police have begun a statewide campaign to reduce the number of road fatalities in Illinois this year by 100. The program began last Thursday and will continue until the end of the year.\nThere were 1,043 road fatalities in Illinois last year, and this year officials want that figure to be at 943 or less. If successful, the state will have experienced the fewest road fatalities since 1921. Organizations and advocacy groups throughout the state are encouraging citizens to promote public awareness of unsafe driving practices, such as driving while impaired, distracted, or unbelted. In addition to saving lives, the program is also aimed at reducing the costs associated with car crashes. According to the National Safety Council, the average economic cost associated with a road fatality is $1 million.\nMore than 400 law enforcement agencies throughout the state are being asked to enhance operations and provide weekly activity and crash reports. The Itasca Police Department, for example, has joined the initiative and will target DUI and seat belt violations, and the Ottawa Police Department will increase enforcement of driving laws by issuing citations to violators. "}
{"id": "144132", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144132", "title": "Article/144071/Irish priest freed from month long captivity in the Philippines", "text": ""}
{"id": "144134", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144134", "title": "Zimbabwe government allocates US$10 million for relocation of thousands of families near diamond field", "text": "The Zimbabwean government has allocated US$10 million worth of funds for the relocation of thousands of families living near the Chiadzwa diamond fields in the Manicaland province.\nMurisi Zwizwai, the Deputy Mines Minister, said that the funds would be used to build houses for the residents in the area, and for developments in . \u201cI can confirm that US$10 million has been set aside for the relocation. The relocation may take place after they have harvested their crops,\u201d he said in an interview, as quoted by the New Zimbabwe news agency.\nZwizwai also added that \u201cthe money would be used to build new houses, clinics among others.\u201d According to him, the residents would not be relocated until the 2009\u201310 agricultural season.\nIn a 100-day plan, the Zimbabwean coalition government noted that diamonds in the area might be a large source of funds and finance for the country, and could help revive the economy."}
{"id": "144135", "revid": "8098", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144135", "title": "Article/144043/Illinois jury sentences Brian Dugan to death", "text": ""}
{"id": "144136", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144136", "title": "Russian territory expands by 4.5 square kilometres after seismic activity", "text": "According to scientists, the land territory of Russia has expanded by about 4.5 square kilometres within the last few years in the Far East due to seismic and volcanic activity.\nThe gained land was recorded in the Sakhalin Peninsula. Boris Levin, head of the Institute for Sea Geology and Geophysics of the Russian Academy of Sciences, said that the increase happened primarily due to two seismic events.\nThe first, in August of 2007, was when a heavy 6.8 earthquake near the city of Nevelsk in the Far East raised about three square kilometres of seabed above the level of the water. The second was in June of this year, when the Sarychev Peak volcano on the Matua Island erupted. GPS trackers on the Matua island were used to monitor the eruption, and the volcano changed its shape, adding 1.5 square kilometres of land, scientists said.\nGeologists also reported that the Kuril Islands nearby were slowly moving towards mainland Russia at an estimated rate of eighteen milimetres per year."}
{"id": "144137", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144137", "title": "Six aid groups suspend work in Chad after killing", "text": "Six aid groups have suspended work in Chad today after the killing of one aid worker, a rash of banditry, and a kidnapping, according to the United Nations. The UN says about 37,000 people will be affected in some way by the move.\nUN spokeswoman Elisabeth Byrs noted that the and \"\" (Doctors Without Borders) are among those to halt operations. \"To date, five NGOs [non-governmental organisations] and the ICRC [International Committee of the Red Cross] have temporarily suspended their activities in the east,\" Byrs said. \"Serious acts of banditry in eastern Chad over the last two weeks jeopardise the continuity of humanitarian operations.\"\nThis comes soon after a worker for the Red Cross, Laurent Maurice, was kidnapped earlier in the week and another local aid worker for the \"Solidarit\u00e9s\" agency was killed.\nOver fifty attacks on humanitarian aid workers in Chad have been made this year by bandits. Relief workers are targeted by criminals because they have valuables and vehicles."}
{"id": "144140", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144140", "title": "One dead after jet crashes into airport in Rwanda", "text": "A passenger jet in the African country of Rwanda crashed into a VIP lounge at an airport on Thursday, officials have said, killing one person. The aircraft involved was a CRJ-100 with Rwandair, leased from the Kenyan Jetlink airline.\nThe director general of Rwanda's Civil Aviation Authority, Richard Masozera, told media that the pilot of the aircraft reported a problem two minutes after takeoff and requested to land. The flight had been due to take its fourteen passengers to Uganda.\n\"He landed safely on the runway and was guided by the marshals into the parking area. For some unexplained reason, the plane, from the parking spot, took off again at full power and [...] took a right turn, unexplained, into the technical building,\" Masozera said. He added that emergency services reacted quickly to the incident, but one of the people on board the plane was hurt and died of injures.\nThe acting chief executive of the airline, Jack Elk, suggested that the jet might have \"auto-accelerated\" and crashed into the building. \"The captain could not control it. The plane did not get airborne again, it taxied into the building,\" he said, noting that the black boxes from the plane's cockpit would be analysed by the authorities. \"The captain was taken to the hospital with a broken leg. He has not been able to give us any information so far.\"\nRwandair CEO Gerald Zirimuabagabo commented that the jet had had technical difficulties in the recent past. On Wednesday, it reportedly made an emergency landing in Nairobi, Kenya over concerns that its generator may have malfunctioned. However, Zirimuabagabo didn't say if the technical fault was corrected by mechanics.\nThe CEO added that an investigation into the incident was launched, and Rwandair's two remaining Jetlink-leased aircraft would be suspended, reducing the airline's fleet to only one operating jet."}
{"id": "144143", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144143", "title": "Article/144137/Six aid groups suspend work in Chad after killing", "text": ""}
{"id": "144145", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144145", "title": "Clint Eastwood is Commander of the &quot;L\u00e9gion d'honneur&quot;", "text": ""}
{"id": "144146", "revid": "26067", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144146", "title": "Washington, DC sniper John Allen Muhammad executed by lethal injection", "text": ""}
{"id": "144148", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144148", "title": "Article/144123/Afghanistan suicide attack wounds more than twenty", "text": ""}
{"id": "144150", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144150", "title": "Article/144134/Zimbabwe government allocates US$10 million for relocation of thousands of families near diamond field", "text": ""}
{"id": "144152", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144152", "title": "Article/144106/Two Azerbaijani bloggers jailed", "text": ""}
{"id": "144156", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144156", "title": "One dead after plane crashes at airport in Rwanda", "text": ""}
{"id": "144157", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144157", "title": "Non-industrial emissions key for meeting Kyoto targets in Europe", "text": "The (EEA) released a report which shows that the European Union is on track to meet their Kyoto Protocol commitments to limit and reduce emissions responsible for the on our earth.\nThe five member states France, Germany, Greece, Sweden and the United Kingdom have already reached the target. All other member states, except Austria, which has to strengthen its efforts, expect to reach the target, too.\nEEA Executive Director Professor Jacqueline McGlade said: \"It is encouraging that Europe's climate-changing emissions are expected to continue decreasing, outperforming the objectives set by the Kyoto Protocol. Such an accomplishment should encourage all countries to agree on much larger reductions of global emissions, sealing a global deal in Copenhagen this December. Commitments to deep emission cuts are urgently needed to preserve our chances to keep planetary temperature increases below 2\u00baC.\""}
{"id": "144159", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144159", "title": "Russian territory expands by 4.5 kilometres after seismic activity", "text": ""}
{"id": "144163", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144163", "title": "Article/144136/Russian territory expands by 4.5 square kilometres after seismic activity", "text": ""}
{"id": "144166", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144166", "title": "Article/144140/One dead after jet crashes into airport in Rwanda", "text": ""}
{"id": "144168", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144168", "title": "Bomb blast kills at least eleven in Pakistan, over twenty wounded", "text": "Pakistani police said today that a suicide car bombing has killed at least eleven people and wounded more than twenty others, in the latest attack in the northwestern city of Peshawar.\nOfficials reported that the bomber set off the explosives at a police checkpoint, and added that two police officers are among the dead.\n\"At least eleven people have been killed and 26 others wounded,\" said Sahibzada Anis, the Peshawar district administration chief, to the Agence France-Presse news agency.\nAccording to the man in charge of the checkpoint, Malik Jehangir, he noticed a black car across the barrier and asked security officers to check it. \"I saw that there was some argument between the driver and the policeman and suddenly a blast downed me with shrapnel piercing my shoulder,\" he said, as quoted by Al Jazeera.\nThe bombing came a day after a suicide bomber struck the Peshawar office of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency, killing ten people. That blast caused a large portion of the three-story ISI building to collapse. "}
{"id": "144169", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144169", "title": "Bomb blast kills seven in Pakistan, twenty wounded", "text": ""}
{"id": "144170", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144170", "title": "Article/144128/Illinois police departments try to reduce number of road fatalities this year", "text": ""}
{"id": "144176", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144176", "title": "NASA mission finds water on the Moon", "text": " \n\"The argument that the moon is a dry, desolate place no longer holds water,\" says a press release from NASA. A Moon mission launched by the agency has confirmed the presence of water on the moon. The discovery comes a year after a NASA instrument on an Indian lander indicated there were water molecules on the surface of our satellite.\nOn September 24, 2008 the had stated had discovered water based on readings from NASA's , one of eleven instruments carried by the probe. Those results indicated water was widespread in low quantities. That probe, launched in October 2008, had to be abandoned on August 30 when contact was lost with it on the Moon's surface.\nThe new mission, called , consisted of two separate spacecraft which travelled the 250,000 miles together in June before separating. An empty rocket slammed into the crater, near the southern pole, while a small spacecraft stayed behind to take measurements from the plume of debris thrown up, although it too ultimately crashed into Cabeus. Across the United States people spent the night on lawns and in parks hoping to see the impact, on the 40th anniversary of the first Apollo Moon landing, but it was invisible to the naked eye. NASA had predicted a visible six-mile plume; the reality was only a mile high.\nThe twin impacts on October 9 are now known to have sent 25 gallons of water ice and vapour into the air amongst the debris kicked up from the 60 to 100 foot wide hole produced by the rocket. This amount only accounts for the debris scientists could actually see over the rim, and the remaining debris could contain more water. It is unclear how much water may be distributed across the Moon, although at the poles suggests water ice there. \nLCROSS stands for lunar crater observation and sensing satellite, which was the satellite's name, while its rocket companion was called Centaur. It took a month to analyse the data from the mission, and efforts are ongoing to determine the composition of the remaining material kicked up out the crater. The whole project cost $75 million.\n\"We got more than just whiff. We practically tasted it with the impact,\" said project co-investigator Peter H Schultz. The material thrown up split into a curtain travelling sideways and a plume that passed the crater's rim, bringing it into the sunlight for the first time in billions of years. Both contained water. \"We are ecstatic,\" said project leader Anthony Colaprete.\n\"We didn't find just a little bit, we found a significant amount.\"\nMichael Wargo, who heads up lunar research for NASA, said \"We're unlocking the mysteries of our nearest neighbour and by extension the solar system. It turns out the moon harbours many secrets, and LCROSS has added a new layer to our understanding.\" It is thought that by analysing the water we can learn of the moon's history, in a fashion similar to investigating Earth history with ice cores.\n physicist Robert Park cautioned that people should not assume that water on the lunar surface would support a colony. \"They've haven't found a big reservoir of it,\" he said. \"I suspect this is just water clinging to the soil particles.\"\nBuzz Aldrin, one of the first to walk on the Moon when he followed pioneer Neil Armstrong out of , said he was pleased by the news but added that \"People will overreact to this news and say, 'Let's have a water rush to the moon.' It doesn't justify that.\" Aldrin wants the US to aim to colonise Mars, but NASA is looking at more lunar trips. Last month a new rocket was tested, and Barack Obama has set up a panel to look at possible Moon missions. George W. Bush had previously proposed a $100 billion programme to put more astronauts onto the Moon. NASA wants to return by 2020 and build a lunar base, allowing astronauts to remain for months at a time."}
{"id": "144178", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144178", "title": "Four teenagers killed in car crash in Birmingham, England", "text": "Four teenage boys are dead after a car crash in Birmingham, England. The collision, which occurred at around 0345 GMT in the suburb of Moseley, involved four boys crashing a blue Rover into a wall on Salisbury Road. The ages of the adolescents are reported as 15, 16, and 17; the age of the fourth teenager is unconfirmed. All four died at the scene.\n\"Police can confirm three of the boys in the car were 17, 15 and 16 years old,\" the West Midlands Police said in a statement. \"The age of the fourth boy is yet to be confirmed. All four occupants of the car died at the scene. A police car in the area at the time was flagged down by a member of the public, who heard the collision take place. Officers responded to the incident immediately.\"\nThe car itself is not believed to have been stolen. \"Crews arrived to find a car which had been in a significant collision with a wall,\" a spokesperson for the West Midlands Ambulance Service said. \"The four occupants of the car all suffered serious multiple injuries in the crash. Unfortunately nothing could be done to save the men and they were all confirmed dead at the scene.\""}
{"id": "144181", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144181", "title": "Article/144168/Bomb blast kills at least eleven in Pakistan, over twenty wounded", "text": ""}
{"id": "144186", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144186", "title": "Article/144178/Four teenagers killed in car crash in Birmingham, England", "text": ""}
{"id": "144193", "revid": "980", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144193", "title": "Article/144176/NASA mission finds water on the Moon", "text": ""}
{"id": "144196", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144196", "title": "Clint Eastwood made Commander of the French &quot;L\u00e9gion d'honneur&quot;", "text": ""}
{"id": "144197", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144197", "title": "Article/144119/Sarkozy makes Clint's day; actor becomes &quot;L\u00e9gion d'honneur&quot; Commander", "text": ""}
{"id": "144199", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144199", "title": "Sarkozy makes Clint's day; actor becomes &quot;L\u00e9gion d'honneur&quot; Commander", "text": ""}
{"id": "144201", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144201", "title": "London Lord Mayor's Show draws crowds despite bad weather", "text": "The annual Lord Mayor's Show went ahead today in London, continuing a centuries old tradition. Severe weather forced the cancellation of the fireworks display for the first time in twenty years, but thousands of people turned out to watch the procession.\nThe newly elected Lord Mayor of the City of London has journeyed through central London every year since 1215. The ceremony has only been cancelled once, in 1852 for the Duke of Wellington's funeral. Nick Anstee was appointed as the 682nd person to hold the position on Friday.\nSaturday's show was opened by a flypast from the Royal Air Force. Anstee himself is the son of an RAF pilot, and tried to get into the service. On failing the entrance exams, he moved into finance.\nNext floats and over 6,000 people began the procession from the City of London to the Royal Courts of Justice. This included 2,000 servicemen and women, as well as the Lord Mayor in the 252-year-old gold State Coach. At the Royal Courts of Justice the Lord Mayor then pledged his allegiance to the Crown.\nAnstee described the show as \"fantastic\", and stated his intention to help restore trust in the financial services of the City."}
{"id": "144202", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144202", "title": "European Union emerges from recession", "text": "The European Union has emerged from its worst recession since World War II, with the announcement on Friday that the region posted a modest growth in the third quarter. Despite the news, some EU economies including Spain and the United Kingdom are still struggling.\nBoth the European Union as a whole and the sixteen EU countries sharing the euro currency (the \"\") posted positive growth, at 0.2 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively. This follows five consecutive quarters of negative growth. The data was published by the European statistical agency and announced by the European Commission in Brussels.\nTwo of Europe's biggest economies, France and Germany, helped drive the overall growth. French Finance Minister announced the French economy had grown 0.3 percent in the third quarter, and predicted it would enter 2010 with its old momentum.\nIn an interview on French radio, Lagarde said the fact the French economy had posted two successive quarters of positive growth showed it was turning around. She also noted that the labour market had only shed 5,000 jobs in the last quarter, far fewer than at the beginning of the year. Speaking from Singapore, Lagarde predicted Asia would drive the world economic recovery \u2014 but she also said it was important to continue government economic stimulus measures through 2010.\nGermany's economy grew 0.7 percent in the third quarter and Italy and the Netherlands also posted an upturn. Lithuania recorded the biggest growth \u2014 up 6 percent in the third quarter.\nHowever the economies of both Spain and the United Kingdom shrunk in the same quarter. The UK's initially estimated a fall of 0.4 percent in British output, though this could be revised. Britain had widely been expected to show growth in the third quarter. Eurostat figures also showed that unemployment in Europe overall rose to 9.7 percent in September \u2014 the highest in 20 years.\nSome economists believe that growth in Europe and the United States may slow or even reverse in 2010, in a so called \"double-dip\". Howard Archer of IHS Global Insight warned that the end of some government stimulus such as car scrappage schemes could cause a \"loss of momentum\". , head of the IMF, disagreed, predicting in a statement from Singapore that 2010 would be a global \"year of recovery\"."}
{"id": "144204", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144204", "title": "Article/144201/London Lord Mayor's Show draws crowds despite bad weather", "text": ""}
{"id": "144211", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144211", "title": "New promotional events set for Disney's &quot;Phineas and Ferb's Christmas Vacation&quot;", "text": "Further promotional and release plans have been announced by The Walt Disney Company's new special, \"Phineas and Ferb's Christmas Vacation,\" from the company's cartoon comedy \"Phineas and Ferb.\" According to the company's press release site (Disney XD Medianet), on November 27, Disney will stream the seven musical numbers, performed by the show's cast and the band Big Bad Voodoo Daddy, that will be showcased in the special on its public radio network Radio Disney. iTunes will then follow by making the songs available for download. \nThe official special is scheduled to air the following week, on December 6, on the company's cable network Disney XD with a repeat immediately following it. The proceeding day, Disney Channel SVOD, Disney XD VOD, Disney XD Mobile, iTunes, and Xbox Live Marketplace will release the episode for digital retail. On December 11, fellow Disney network Disney Channel will broadcast the special following a six-hour marathon of the series; the next day, Disney Channel and Disney XD's websites will release the special for viewing. On December 18, ABC Family will air the episode as part of its month-long event \"25 Days of Christmas.\" Finally, to help the special's promotion, costumers dressed as the show's characters will perform on December 25, 2009, in the \"Disney Parks Christmas Day Parade\" which will be broadcast on the ABC Television Network.\nDisney also confirmed that actors Clancy Brown, Malcolm McDowell, Jane Carr, Mathew Horne, and Bruce MacKinnon will each guest star in the special. "}
{"id": "144214", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144214", "title": "Article/144202/European Union emerges from recession", "text": ""}
{"id": "144217", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144217", "title": "Article/144211/New promotional events set for Disney's &quot;Phineas and Ferb's Christmas Vacation&quot;", "text": ""}
{"id": "144234", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144234", "title": "Syria's President calls upon France to intervene whilst rejecting direct talks with Israel", "text": ""}
{"id": "144240", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144240", "title": "White House considers sending Guantanamo Bay prisoners to Illinois", "text": "The has announced that it is considering sending Guantanamo Bay detainees to a state prison in northwestern Illinois. \nGovernor and President discussed a federal purchase of the Thomson Correctional Center in during Quinn's visit to Washington on November 4. The purchase would bring a desperately needed $200 million to the state government. Senator said in a statement last Saturday that the purchase would also bring fewer than 100 Guantanamo detainees to the prison and create 3,000 new jobs in the local economy.\nRepublican opposition has already begun. Representative warned in a letter to the President, \"As home to America's tallest building, we should not invite Al Qaeda to make Illinois its number one target.\" Representative , whose district includes Thomson, has stated that he is \"fighting efforts to bring these terrorists onto our shores ... where they could one day be released into our communities.\"\nBuilt in 2001, the Thomson prison is the newest maximum-security prison in Illinois. However, it currently does not hold any maximum-security inmates but has 200 minimum-security inmates. "}
{"id": "144244", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144244", "title": "UK soldier shot dead in Afghanistan, number of military personnel killed in country increases to 233", "text": "A British soldier has been shot dead in the Helmand Province of Afghanistan, the Ministry of Defence has announced. The soldier, who came from 7th Battalion The Rifles, was killed by \"small arms fire\" while he was on foot patrol near the town of Sangin on Sunday morning. With the revelation of this information, the total number of military personnel that has now been killed in Afghanistan since the year 2001 has now increased to 233.\nThe family of the soldier have now been told. Lieutenant Colonel David Wakefield, who is the spokesperson for Task Force Helmand, said that \"[i]t is my sad duty to inform you that this morning a British soldier from the 3 Rifles Battle Group was shot and killed while on patrol in Helmand province.\n\"He died in the course of his duty. He will be missed by us, his comrades, and we will remember him.\" The soldier himself is currently remaining unidentified."}
{"id": "144250", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144250", "title": "At least 32 dead after snowstorms in China", "text": "Heavy snowstorms in northern China have killed at least 32 people today, according to officials. More than 15,000 buildings had collapsed due to large amounts of snow and 300,000 hectares of winter crops were destroyed, according to the Chinese Ministry of Civil Affairs.\nThe ministry estimated that 9.6 million people were affected in some way by the snows, and a further 166,000 people were evacuated from their homes. Most of the deaths were caused by traffic accidents, the ministry said.\nHeavy snowfall started on Monday in central and northern parts of China, including the provinces of Hebei, Shanxi, Henan, Hubei, Shaanxi, and Shandong. The capital of Beijing was struck by three successive snowfalls, and dozens of flights at airports were cancelled or delayed. Beijing and the surrounding area is not very well equipped to handle the snows, as they have few de-icing supplies or snowploughs.\nThe snowfalls are the heaviest in China since records started being kept in 1949, according to the civil affairs ministry. State media suggested some of the snowfall was started artificially, by cloud seeding."}
{"id": "144251", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144251", "title": "Kenyan cattle rustlers kill eleven", "text": "Kenya's livestock minister, Mohammed Kuti, said today that cattle rustlers have killed eleven people near the central town of Isiolo.\nKuti, who is also the member of parliament for Isiolo, said the rustlers raided in a village in the area early in the day. \"The eleven people were killed when rustlers stormed a village in Kisima area early this morning,\" he commented.\nThe state-owned Kenya Broadcasting Corporation puts the number of attackers at 300, and stated that they stole an unknown number of livestock.\nCattle rustling is common in Kenya, and the extended drought has heightened competition for scarce sources of food. In mid-September, 30 people were killed in a shootout as rustlers from the Pokot tribe attacked the Samburu tribe and made off with hundreds of cattle."}
{"id": "144265", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144265", "title": "Article/144240/White House considers sending Guantanamo Bay prisoners to Illinois", "text": ""}
{"id": "144267", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144267", "title": "Article/144244/UK soldier shot dead in Afghanistan, number of military personnel killed in country increases to 233", "text": ""}
{"id": "144274", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144274", "title": "Amnesty International calls for police justice in Mozambique", "text": "Human Rights group Amnesty International has called on the Mozambican government to stop and investigate allegedly illegal killings by police, citing 46 deaths since 2006 with few police prosecutions and families unable to achieve justice.\n\"The families of victims face almost insurmountable challenges and only the most persistent and well-off have been able to get some small measure of justice. Most others are left without any justice for the loss of their loved ones,\" stated Erwin van der Borght, Director of Amnesty International's Africa Programme.\n\"Even worse, the government seems to have permitted and even encouraged a number of obstacles to be put in the way of victims' families as they sought justice.\"\nA police spokesman, however, claimed that the report is biased. Police said that officers guilty of illegal killings had been convicted, receiving sentences of over twenty years. However the authorities provided little information to the human rights' group, despite numerous requests. On other occasions they said that no investigations were undertaken as the killing was presumed legal.\nMozambique's police minister and his deputy declined to comment."}
{"id": "144277", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144277", "title": "Article/144250/At least 32 dead after snowstorms in China", "text": ""}
{"id": "144280", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144280", "title": "Article/144157/Non-industrial emissions key for meeting Kyoto targets in Europe", "text": ""}
{"id": "144303", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144303", "title": "Edward Woodward, English actor, dies aged 79", "text": "English actor Edward Woodward has died today, aged 79. The actor was unwell for several months, suffering from a number of illnesses including pneumonia. He died in hospital in Cornwall, England.\nBorn in Croydon, London, Woodward was perhaps best known for his role as Sergeant Howie in the 1973 cult British horror film \"The Wicker Man\". The director of that film, Robin Hardy, described him as \"one of the greatest actors of his generation\" and \"an extremely nice human being\". His appearance in the Australian film \"Breaker Morant\" was also highly acclaimed.\nHe began his career in theatre, starting out in 1946. He later worked across the country and internationally, appearing in the West End, London and Broadway, New York. In 1963 he was cast in No\u00ebl Coward's Broadway production \"High Spirits\". Coward described him as \"One of the nicest and most co-operative actors I have ever met or worked with. He is the only one who has given me no trouble at all.\"\nWoodward later appeared in over 2,000 television productions, notably starring in the American show \"The Equalizer\" in the 1980s, in addition to \"Callan\" on ITV in Britain. Outside of film and television, he recorded three albums of poetry and several LPs.\nDespite having triple heart bypass surgery in 1996, and being diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2003, he continued to work. His final television appearance was in six episodes of the British soap opera \"EastEnders\" earlier this year.\n\"He was a delight to work with, and delivered a characteristically touching and layered performance,\" said Diederick Santer, the executive producer of \"EastEnders\". \"Our thoughts are with his family.\"\nWoodward had two sons and a daughter from his first marriage, to Venetia Mary Collett in 1953. All three became successful actors. In 1987 he married the actress Michele Dotrice, with whom he had a daughter."}
{"id": "144308", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144308", "title": "US", "text": ""}
{"id": "144310", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144310", "title": "British rapper Derek B dies at age 44", "text": "British rapper Derek B has died at the age of 44 after a heart attack, according to reports released today.\nThe hip-hop artist, who was born by the name of Derek Boland, was born in London, England, was believed to have become the first \"home-grown\" artist in his music genre to appear on British televised music programme Top of the Pops, and was one of the first hip-hop artists in the United Kingdom to have significant chart success in the UK Singles Chart, achieving songs that reached the top 20 of the chart, including the likes of \"Good Groove\" and \"Bad Young Brother\" in 1988. He was also partly responsible for writing the Anfield Rap, which was a track recorded for Liverpool F.C., an English football club. The record reached number 3 in the UK Singles Chart.\nThe man released a debut album called \"Bullet From A Gun\" in 1988, which, at its peak, reached number 9 in the UK Album Chart. It remained in the chart for a total of nine weeks. Ben Chijioke, who is another British hip-hop recording artist known normally by his stage name Ty, spoke to BBC News about the effect which this artist had on the music world. \"He definitely broke the door down,\" he said. \"He was one of the first artists that I saw get to such a level through rap, and be on Top of the Pops, be on children's programmes, be on the world stage. He was one of the ones to do it first, when it was thoroughly unacceptable from the mainstream perspective. At the time, he was absolutely groundbreaking. He definitely broke the door down.\"\nZane Lowe is a disc jockey on BBC Radio 1. On his page on social networking website Twitter, he has been quoted as saying the following: \"Oh man. Derek B was a massive album for me. Sad day RT. RIP DEREK BOLAND (WAG CLUB) :(\". In a separate message sent three hours later, Zane wrote the following: \"Respect to Derek B. Bad Young Brother on R1. Sounded huge.\""}
{"id": "144313", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144313", "title": "Article/144303/Edward Woodward, English actor, dies aged 79", "text": ""}
{"id": "144319", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144319", "title": "Poaching in Zimbabwe on the rise", "text": "A wildlife official in Zimbabwe said today that the amount of animal in the country has increased substantially this year, blaming an international crime syndicate. He said that 65 and 30 rhinoceroses have been killed this year by poachers.\n\"From January to October this year we have lost 65 elephants through poaching,\" said Vitalis Chadenga, the operations director of the Zimbabwe National Parks and Wildlife Authority. \"In the same period we have lost 24 black and six white rhinos. It is true that we have witnessed an escalation of poaching nationwide, particularly on private farms.\"\n\"We do have a group of international gangsters, who are funding poachers around this part of the world and taking away many horns and it is a major problem,\" the director continued; \"we have arrested 2,500 poachers in the same period, ten poachers have been shot dead since the beginning of this year.\"\nZimbabwe is one of four countries in Africa that are home to large numbers of rhinos, the others being Kenya, Namibia, and South Africa. About 100,000 elephants live in Zimbabwe, and Chandenga said that the numbers have been growing in past years."}
{"id": "144321", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144321", "title": "Article/144319/Poaching in Zimbabwe on the rise", "text": ""}
{"id": "144323", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144323", "title": "Rebels say 626 Ethiopian troops killed in clashes", "text": "A rebel group in Ethiopia's Ogaden region said today that it has killed 626 government troops after heavy fighting near the border with neighboring Somalia. The government, however, has dismissed the claim, calling it \"a complete fabrication\".\nA communiqu\u00e9 sent to news agencies by e-mail announced that a multi-front offensive launched by the Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) on November 10 is still in progress. The communiqu\u00e9, believed to be sent from ONLF offices in Europe, says 626 Ethiopian troops have died, and the statement says the battlefields are littered with bodies of soldiers. It described ONLF casualties as \"minimal\", but gave no details.\nA rebel communiqu\u00e9 issued on Friday said the rebels had captured seven towns along the border with Somalia.\n\"The operation involved thousands of ONLF troops and resulted in two days of heavy fighting. A significant number of Ethiopian troops have been killed and their military hardware captured or destroyed,\" read a statement by the ONLF.\nThey said that they entered the towns of Boodhaano, Galadiid, Gunogabo, Hamaro, Higlaaley, Obolka, and Yucub, where the Ethiopian government had stationed troops and military hardware. \"ONLF forces were warmly welcomed by the population in these areas and are administering medical care to those civilians killed by retreating Ethiopian occupation forces,\" the statement continued.\nThe reports could not be independently verified, as journalists are not permitted into the region. Ethiopian government spokesman Shimelis Kemal, however, called the ONLF claims completely false. In a telephone interview with the Voice of America news agency, he described the communiqu\u00e9s as a desperate measure used occasionally by the rebels to portray the region as being in turmoil.\n\"This group used to make exaggerated claims,\" said Shimelis Kemal. \"This is the usual lie, deliberately fabricated by this terrorist group.\" He also told the Agence France-Presse news agency that the rebel's announcements were \"baseless claim, blank propaganda. This terrorist group is currently disbanded from government campaigns.\"\nShimelis denied any government troops had been killed, and said the current fighting is between the rebels and local militia groups. \"The rebels were expelled and defeated by the local militia,\" said Shimelis. \"The army was not involved there.\"\nEthiopia calls the rebels \"terrorists\" backed by neighboring rival Eritrea, and with ties to the Somali group al-Shabab. Eritrea and the ONLF both denied the links, and there is no independent verification of the charges.\nGovernment troops launched a fierce offensive against the ONLF in early 2007 after the rebels attacked a Chinese-owned oil exploration field in Ethiopia's Ebole district, killing 74 people. The ONLF accused the troops of conducting a \"scorched earth\" campaign, a claim that was strongly denied by the government.\nThe United Nations twice requested access to the region to conduct independent human rights assessments, but Ethiopia refused the requests.\nGovernment spokesman Shimelis said that 2007 offensive effectively ended the ONLF's military capability. \"Since the Ebole incident, the ONLF bandit group is on the run,\" he said. \"Recently however, they have tried to raid some administrations in the localities, and that attempt had been effectively defeated by the local militia.\"\nEthiopia has recently attempted to assure oil companies the ONLF no longer has the ability to threaten exploration and production in the Ogaden region. However, Ethiopia's mines and energy minister was quoted this week as saying no petroleum reserves had been found in the country, despite years of search.\nThe ONLF has been fighting for greater autonomy or independence for the Ogaden since Ethiopia seized the mostly Somali-speaking region in a war with Somalia more than 30 years ago."}
{"id": "144324", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144324", "title": "Four dead after explosion at police station in Peshawar, Pakistan", "text": "At least four people have been killed and another 26 wounded after a suspected suicide bomb attack near Peshawar, Pakistan killed four people today, according to police.\nThe explosion occurred at a police station in Badaber, located about twelve kilomtres from Peshawar. The blast damaged the station and a mosque, and completely destroyed several shops and other buildings located nearby.\n\"The death toll is four and there are 26 injured,\" commented a doctor for the Lady Reading Hospital, Zafar Iqbal. Liaqat Ali Khan, a local police official said to the Associated Press news agency that security officials started shooting at a vehicle as it drove up to a checkpoint near the police station. The driver, however, managed to set off the explosives.\n\"We have beefed up checks at entry and exit points to and from the tribal areas and that's why these blasts are taking place at our checkposts and our men are laying down their lives,\" Khan told the Associated Press."}
{"id": "144326", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144326", "title": "Article/144324/Four dead after explosion at police station in Peshawar, Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "144328", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144328", "title": "Article/144310/British rapper Derek B dies at age 44", "text": ""}
{"id": "144332", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144332", "title": "Egypt registers first domain name in Arabic", "text": "Egyptian Communication and Information Technology Minister Tarek Kamel announced on Sunday that the country had filed an application for the \".misr\" (\".Egypt\") top-level domain (\u0645\u0635\u0631\u200e in Arabic) and that registrations for second-level domains would begin as of midnight (2200 UTC) at an Internet conference sponsored by the United Nations. According to Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) chief executive Rod Beckstrom, six countries have applied for top-level domains in three languages since the Internet coordinator opened up the use of non Latin scripts yesterday.\n\"Now we can really say that Internet will speak Arabic,\" said Kamel at the start of the Internet Governance Forum (IGF)'s fourth conference at Sharm el-Sheikh.\nThe expansion of Internet domain names with Internationalized Domain Names (IDN), containing non-Latin characters is the fruit of six years of discussions and technical work, resulting in the ICANN voting on October 30 to allow the new domain names. It has been called the move the \"biggest change\" to the Internet \"since it was invented 40 years ago\".\n\"Over half the Internet users around the world don't use a Latin-based script as their native language,\" commented Rod Beckstrom, president of the ICANN. \"IDNs are about making the Internet more global and accessible for everyone.\"\nThe IGF conference will address access to the Internet, notably local content reflecting different cultures and languages. Other key topics are cybercrime and safe Internet usage. The theme of the conference is \"Creating Opportunities for All\", reflected in a speech by the United Nations Undersecretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs, Sha Zukang. \"The voice of developing world must be heard,\" he said.\nICANN, a non-profit, private organisation, currently limits the application for new domains to national governments or territories, although domain names will be available to individuals at a later date via national registries. "}
{"id": "144334", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144334", "title": "Article/144323/Rebels say 626 Ethiopian troops killed in clashes", "text": ""}
{"id": "144336", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144336", "title": "Article/144332/Egypt registers first domain name in Arabic", "text": ""}
{"id": "144339", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144339", "title": "Zambian &quot;porn&quot; journalist found not guilty", "text": "A Zambian journalist accused of distributing pornography because she sent officials photographs of a woman forced to give birth in a carpark outside a hospital was found not guilty yesterday in Lusaka. The accused, Chansa Kabwela, faced a prison sentence of five years; she contested that she had only mailed the photos to highlight the effects of a strike at hospitals throughout the country. The baby shown in the photos had died because of lack of medical attention.\nPresident Rupiah Banda had said that the photographs were pornographic, but magistrate Charles Kafunda said the prosecution had not proved that the photographs corrupted morals, and they were therefore not obscene. \"The pictures fall outside the circumstances of determining obscenity. I have had recourse to the photos in question,\" he said.\n\"The Post\" newspaper, for whom Kabwela is a news editor, had not published the photos. Instead, she forwarded them to vice-president George Kunda and non-governmental organisations. Speaking to German Press Agency \"Deutsche Presse-Agentur\" she stated she had acted in good faith and had attempted to bring attention to the effects of the strike. \"I'm happy that the court has vindicated me. This is a victory for the media,\" she said.\nAccording to Kabwela and other press freedom campaigners, the case was political. Since President Banda's election in October 2008, he has had a difficult relationship with the press, in particular with \"The Post\", whom he accuses of conspiring with the opposition by reporting false stories about his government; \"The Press\" has made a number of accusations of government corruption."}
{"id": "144340", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144340", "title": "Zambian &quot;porn&quot; journalist not guilty", "text": ""}
{"id": "144341", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144341", "title": "Daimler acquires stake in winning team Brawn GP, changes its name to Mercedes Grand Prix", "text": "On Monday Daimler AG announced a deal to buy a 75.1% stake in Brawn GP.\nAs a result, the team who won both the 2009 Drivers\u2019 and Constructors' championships this year with Mercedes-engined cars, would be rebranded as Mercedes Grand Prix from 2010 Formula One Season onwards. The team could possibly use its legendary 'Silver Arrows' livery again since a crash at Le Mans in 1955, ending Mercedes' 55 year absence in the sport as a sole team.\nDaimler purchase went in partnership with Aabar Investments, who now own 30% of the shares. The rest of the shares will stay for Ross Brawn, who will remain as team principal, and Nick Fry.\nThe team still will be headquartered in Brackley (United Kingdom) which is close to Mercedes F1 engine plant at Brixworth, led by Norbert Haug, Vice-President of Mercedes-Benz Motorsport.\nMercedes will also continue to supply McLaren with engines until at least 2015, but sell its 40% stake in two years.\nMercedes is now up to decide their drivers for the next season as Rubens Barrichello already signed a contract with Williams and Jenson Button could run for McLaren together with Lewis Hamilton."}
{"id": "144342", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144342", "title": "Article/144339/Zambian &quot;porn&quot; journalist found not guilty", "text": ""}
{"id": "144344", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144344", "title": "Daimler acquired a stake in winning team Brawn GP, changes it's name to Mercedes Grand Prix", "text": ""}
{"id": "144345", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144345", "title": "Czechs and Slovaks celebrate twenty years since Velvet Revolution", "text": "Czechs and Slovaks yesterday celebrated the twenty-year anniversary of the so-called \"Velvet Revolution\", which brought down the then Czechoslovakian Communist regime, with thousands re-enacting the demonstration that followed the fall of the Berlin Wall, and elections in Poland and Hungary.\nDavid Gaydecka, one of the organisers, was thirteen when he went with his father to participate in the demonstration. \"I didn't really understand what was happening, but I could sense something in the air. I knew this was something important,\" he said. \"The Wall had come down in Berlin, they were holding elections in Poland and Hungary. Everyone knew that it would come here too, but nobody knew how to do it. It was embarrassing for the Czechs; we were almost the last ones.\"\nFormer dissident and playright V\u00e1clav Havel, who went on to become President of Czechoslovakia (and first president of the Czech Republic) joined 5,000 students, past and present, who retraced the march. Originally officials had sanctioned the march, but groups splintered away in an attempt to reach Wenceslas Square. The Communist leaders ordered riot police to seal off streets, leading to beatings and two hundred people injured.\nThis was to prove the government's downfall with anger throughout the country motivating opposition and the old regime broke down shortly afterwards. \"The atmosphere that day was terrible, like a war,\" Michael Koc\u00e1b, Czech Minister for Human Rights and Minorities, who played a major role in the transition from a totalitarian regime to democracy. \"I was just a few yards away when I saw the police beating people. It was the first time that the police did not leave an escape route for us. By then we were used to clashes but somehow we felt that day that it would be an important moment that would lead to change and have an impact on the regime.\"\nHavel, along with current Czech President V\u00e1clav Klaus, Prime Minister Jan Fischer and hundreds of participants laid flowers and lit candles at a memorial in memory of the violent clashes. \"The march set history into motion,\" said Havel."}
{"id": "144348", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144348", "title": "Article/144274/Amnesty International calls for police justice in Mozambique", "text": ""}
{"id": "144351", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144351", "title": "Israel announces settlement expansion plans", "text": "The Israeli Interior Ministry has announced today that 900 new housing units are slated to be built by Israeli officials at the settlement located in East Jerusalem. \nA press release by the Interior Ministry read, \"The planning and construction committee has authorised the construction of 900 housing units in the Gilo neighbourhood in Jerusalem.\" \nAnnexed after the 1967 war, East Jerusalem is what Palestinians still hope to make the capital of their future state. However, the current Israeli government has made claim to Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. \"Jerusalem is Israel's capital and will remain as such,\" said government spokesman Mark Regev.\nEarlier this month the Palestinian Authority insisted that all negotiations with Israel would be put permanently on hold until settlement expansion and home demolitions were halted. The UN reports that 1,500 home demolition orders in East Jerusalem are currently pending in Israeli courts. At least 600 Palestinians have been displaced from their homes in East Jerusalem since the beginning of this year. Nearly 500,000 Israelis live in more than 100 different settlements located in Jerusalem and the West Bank. \nU.S envoy to the Middle East, George Mitchell, asked President Benjamin Netanyahu to cancel settlement expansion plans, however his request went unheeded. Settlement expansion has soured relations between the U.S and Israel, however Israel is still the largest recipient of U.S aid annually. Responding to requests by the U.S government that settlement expansion be halted Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat said that he, \"strongly objects to the American demand to halt construction in Jerusalem and will allow construction for Jews, Muslims, and Christians in any part of Jerusalem without prejudice. The demand to halt construction by religion is not legal in the United States or in any other free place in the world.\"\nUnder international law building settlements in occupied territory is illegal. The UN has deemed Israeli settlements to be a violation of the Geneva Convention."}
{"id": "144356", "revid": "56307", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144356", "title": "Israel Announces Settlement Expansion Plans", "text": ""}
{"id": "144357", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144357", "title": "Family seeks prosecution over loss of UK Nimrod jet in Afghanistan", "text": "Following a new report into the loss of a Nimrod jet belonging to the UK's Royal Air Force over Afghanistan the family of one of the victims is seeking a criminal prosecution. Sergeant Ben Knight, aged 25, was among the fourteen killed when Nimrod XV230 crashed in 2006.\nKnight's parents have applied via their lawyers Smithfield Partners to the Crown Prosecution Service to consider evidence contained in a report by Charles Haddon-Cave QC, who is due to appear before the House of Commons next month. \"The Loss Of RAF Nimrod XV230, A Failure Of Leadership, Culture And Priorities\" stated that the accident was preventable and that the Ministry of Defence (MoD) made spending cuts a priority over safety. A 2005 review into Nimrod safety was \"riddled with errors,\" the report found.\nSmithfield Partners have also written to the Health and Safety Executive, asking for the MoD to be investigated for breaches of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974. The letter was addressed directly to deputy chief executive Kevin Myres.\nXV230 had shortly completed air-to-air refueling on September 2, 2006, when it was destroyed by an explosion. \"We had a 25-year-old healthy son, who used to play squash and, to put it bluntly, he ended up as a plastic bag full of bits,\" said Graham Knight. \"That is something which is very hard to cope with.\"\nThe Knights met Armed Forces Minister Bill Rammell in London yesterday. Rammell said he was unable to comment on possible legal action against individuals, but promised to provide answers to other questions posed by the Knights and other families. The Crown Prosecution Service has promised consider the matter, and the Health and Safety Executive said it could not comment this early on in developments. The latest report names five people in the MoD, three with BAE Systems and two with defence company QinetiQ, as responsible.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "144359", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144359", "title": "Iraq threatened with expulsion from world football by FIFA", "text": "The governing body of world football, FIFA, has threatened Iraq with expulsion after the Iraqi Olympic Committee (IOC) took control of the country's governing body of football and disbanded it. FIFA has given the country 72 hours to restore the Iraq Football Association (IFA); if this is not done, the case is to be referred to FIFA\u2019s emergency committee.\nThe IFA and the IOC have disputed over who controls the game in the country for several years. The IOC has blamed the IFA for the FIFA ban on the country not being allowed to host international friendly matches due to security reasons. Since the 2003 invasion by American forces, Iraq has hosted two internationals matches, both against Palestine. They are due to play against the United Arab Emirates tomorrow, but the general ban still remains in place.\nA statement was released on the FIFA website said: \"FIFA appeals once more to all stakeholders in Iraq to respect the autonomy of sport in general and the IFA in particular and to allow IFA to conduct its affairs according its statutes and those of FIFA.\"\nShould the case be passed over to FIFA\u2019s emergency committee, it would most likely result in a ban from the sport."}
{"id": "144361", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144361", "title": "Iraq threaten with expulsion from world football by FIFA", "text": ""}
{"id": "144362", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144362", "title": "Article/144359/Iraq threatened with expulsion from world football by FIFA", "text": ""}
{"id": "144364", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144364", "title": "Family seek prosecution over loss of UK Nimrod jet in Afghanistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "144365", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144365", "title": "Article/144357/Family seeks prosecution over loss of UK Nimrod jet in Afghanistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "144367", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144367", "title": "Rockets kill ten civilians in Afghanistan", "text": "Insurgents in eastern Afghanistan fired rockets into a marketplace on Monday, killing ten civilians in an area where French armed forces were meeting with tribal elders.\nFrench and Afghan officials said the attack, which was in the town of Tagab in the Kapisa province, wounded at least 28 people. Two rockets hit the market as the commander of French troops in eastern Afghanistan, General Marcel Druart, was meeting tribal chiefs nearby.\n\"The Taliban fired the rockets from Badrab, where they have a base. They are strong there,\" said deputy police chief Haji Mohammed Akbar. \nFrench and US medical teams evacuated the wounded by helicopter to hospitals for treatment. No French personnel were reported hurt.\nThe French commander attended the gathering of tribal elders, known as a \"shura,\" as part of NATO efforts to win the trust of Afghan civilians in a region with a strong Taliban presence. French troops have been fighting the Taliban northeast of the capital, Kabul, to try to secure towns and roads threatened by the militants."}
{"id": "144369", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144369", "title": "50 dead after ferry in Myanmar capsizes", "text": "As many as 50 people have been killed after a wooden ferry capsized in the Irrawaddy delta region of Myanmar on Sunday night, according to officials.\nThe \"Nay Win Tun\" ran into an oil barge in the Irrawaddy delta, causing it to sink. The ferry, travelling from the town of Pathein to Thetkelthaung, is said to have had about 200 passengers on board at the time of the accident. The barge didn't sink, authorities said.\n\"The boat sank after colliding with an oil barge. We have recovered 34 bodies and there are at least another 16 people missing who are believed to have drowned. The other passengers were rescued from the water and have gone back to their home villages,\" said an unnamed official in the area.\nAnother official commented that \"there is very little chance of finding those missing alive. Most of them are women and children.\"\nFerry accidents in Myanmar are not infrequent, as most of the country's population relies on old, frequently crowded water vessels for transportation, which are sometimes not well maintained."}
{"id": "144371", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144371", "title": "Fifty dead after ferry in Myanmar capsizes", "text": ""}
{"id": "144372", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144372", "title": "Article/144369/50 dead after ferry in Myanmar capsizes", "text": ""}
{"id": "144374", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144374", "title": "Article/144367/Rockets kill ten civilians in Afghanistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "144381", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144381", "title": "Article/144351/Israel announces settlement expansion plans", "text": ""}
{"id": "144387", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144387", "title": "Illinois tollway worker jailed for stealing fines", "text": "A former employee of the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority was sentenced on Monday to one year in prison for stealing fines from the agency. \nThirty-four-year-old Uganda T. Harris from Bellwood was accused of embezzling over $36,000 from the tollway authority in a period of six months. She pleaded guilty to the charges in June. She is to report to the DuPage County jail on November 30 to begin a one-year work-release program that only allows her out to work 40 hours per week. She will also serve four years of probation and will be required to pay the agency $1,000 for insurance coverage in addition to the more than $36,000 she allegedly stole. \nHarris had worked as a customer service representative since June 2007. An audit by the tollway authority's inspector general's office revealed that she incorrectly classified the fines she collected as coming from I-PASS users, who pay lesser fines, and pocketed the cash. The Illinois State Police later caught Harris with $1,100 in marked $20-bills they used to pay a phony fine during an undercover investigation. She claimed that she did this only rarely and to help those people in desperate need of relief from what she saw as high tollway fines. "}
{"id": "144396", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144396", "title": "Czechs and Slovaks prepare to celebrate twenty years since Velvet Revolution", "text": ""}
{"id": "144397", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144397", "title": "UN criticises Israel's latest settlement plan, angry reaction from US and UK", "text": "United States and United Kingdom spokespeople have added to criticism from United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that Israel's decision to authorise a further 900 homes in east Jerusalem will \"undermine efforts for peace and cast doubt on the viability of the two-state solution\".\nA spokesperson for Ban Ki-moon stated, \"The Secretary-General deplores the Government of Israel\u2019s decision today to expand Gilo settlement, built on Palestinian territory occupied by Israel in the 1967 war.\"\nThe US rebuked Israel for their decision. \"We are dismayed at the Jerusalem planning committee's decision to move forward on the approval process for the expansion of Gilo in Jerusalem,\" said White House spokesperson Robert Gibbs. \"At a time when we are working to relaunch negotiations, these actions make it more difficult for our efforts to succeed,\" he said, referring to the attempts by the US to lead the peace process. \"Neither party should engage in efforts or take actions that could unilaterally pre-empt, or appear to pre-empt, negotiations.\"\nUS Department of State spokesperson Ian Kelly added, \"We object to this, and we object to other Israeli practices in Jerusalem related to housing, including the continuing pattern of evictions and demolitions of Palestinian homes.\"\nThe British consulate in Jerusalem issued a statement on behalf of Foreign Secretary David Miliband that read, \"The Foreign Secretary has been very clear that a credible deal involves Jerusalem as a shared capital. Expanding settlements on occupied land in East Jerusalem makes that deal much harder. So this decision is wrong and we oppose it.\"\nAccording to Israel Army Radio, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu rejected a request from the US Middle East envoy George Mitchell on Monday to halt building in the area on the grounds that that Gilo was \"an integral part of Jerusalem\". \"Prime Minister Netanyahu [\u2026] is willing to adopt the policy of the greatest possible restraint concerning growth in the West Bank, but this applies to the West Bank,\" said the Prime Minister's spokesperson Mark Regev. \"Jerusalem is Israel's capital and will remain as such.\"\nFollowing the suspension of peace talks last year, the Palestinian National Authority has demanded a halt to all construction of settlements before it will return to negotiations. President Mahmud Abbas said that the breakdown in talks left him with no choice but to seek international recognition of a Palestinian state unilaterally, despite requests from the United States and the European Union to resume peace talks. \"We feel we are in a very difficult situation,\" he said in Cairo after talks with his Egyptian counterpart Hosni Mubarak. \"What is the solution for us? To remain suspended like this, not in peace? That is why I took this step.\"\nThis comes as another blow to United States President Barack Obama, whose attempts at brokering a deal to halt settlement expansion are meeting with little success. With the credibility of the US leader diminishing, French President Nicolas Sarkozy has recently started meeting with a number of Middle East leaders in the past week, attempting to reconcile with Syria and meeting with King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia."}
{"id": "144398", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144398", "title": "International leaders criticise Israel's latest settlement plan", "text": ""}
{"id": "144399", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144399", "title": "United Arab Emirates", "text": ""}
{"id": "144402", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144402", "title": "UN criticises Israel's latest settlement plan, provokes angry reaction in US and UK", "text": ""}
{"id": "144405", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144405", "title": "UN criticises Israel's latest settlement plan, provokes angry reaction from US and UK", "text": ""}
{"id": "144417", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144417", "title": "UAE", "text": ""}
{"id": "144423", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144423", "title": "Mobile operator Orange bills French doctor \u20ac160,000 for one month of Internet use", "text": "In a third case of staggering sums billed for \"unlimited\" Internet access reported this week, a French emergency-room doctor from Fontainebleau beats all records with a \u20ac159,212 (US$237,417) bill. The telephone-number-sized bill covers one month's use of an unlimited 3G dongle on Orange's network; the beleaguered Dr Jean Spadaro has been battling this for six months.\n\"To begin with I thought it was a joke\", said Spadaro, confirming a story from \"l'Observateur du Valenciennois\"; The same newspaper that revealed last week a similar case \u2014 Eric Gernez, a caf\u00e9 owner in Petite-For\u00eat near to Valenciennes \u2014 who received a bill for \u20ac45,000. Christophe Aupy-Fargues, head of an insurance brokerage firm in Saint-Herblain, west of Nantes, and another unlimited 3G dongle user, confirmed to \"Ouest-France\" on Monday the blocking of payment on a bill for \u20ac39,500 demanded by Orange.\n\"I subscribed in November 2008 to a basic internet access by 3G dongle at \u20ac30 per month [...] seeing my bills reach sums going up to \u20ac860 in April, I decided in May to subscribe to unlimited access by 3G dongle with Orange business at \u20ac50 per month. When I saw my bill for May, I couldn't believe my eyes: \u20ac159,212, for one month's connection, it's impossible, especially as we don't use it all of the time\" added Spadaro, the father of two children, aged sixteen and nineteen.\nOn opening the envelope in June, he expected to read an amount neighbouring the cost of his subscription; but, to his horror, it was \u20ac159,212; a demand large enough to make an emergency-room doctor's head spin.\nSpadaro claims France T\u00e9l\u00e9com (Orange's parent company) never explained to him that the \"unlimited\" package only related to the time spent surfing on the Internet \u2014 not the volume of traffic \u2014 limited to one Gigabyte per month. The package's quota corresponds to moderate usage (reception of simple emails for example). As normal Internet users, the members of the Spadaro family surfed Facebook, YouTube, sent emails with attachments, received same, &amp;c. That volume of traffic proved to be costly. \u20ac0.17 per Megabyte, or \u20ac170 per Gigabyte. Until the bills arrived, the Spadaro family were using the Internet, ignorant of the cost being incurred.\nThe doctor's bills, not listed in detail, are \u20ac53 for February, \u20ac346 for March, \u20ac860 for April before soaring to more than \u20ac159,000 in May. Spadaro also claims, with evidence of his letters in hand, he had increased the number of protest actions and received, in response, \"warnings with threats of seizure\".\nBattle-weary after six months of contacting his operator, Spadaro has lost all patience. \"Since June, I've spent hours writing emails, letters or calling Orange to ask for an explanation. I've been passed from call centre to call centre, from customer services to debt collection. No one at Orange was able to give me the slightest clarification. A real wall\", he said. He has never contacted a consumer association, \"due to lack of time and also because I trusted the people with whom I was speaking\".\nAt the end of last week he stumbled upon the article on the \"Observateur du Valenciennois\" internet site concerning the case of Eric Gernez. He then also threatened Orange with the press. \"The result did not tardy\", he continues. \"A customer services representative and a debt collector immediately contacted me by email November 16. And immediately afterwards I received a credit for \u20ac136,529\". A first credit having already been sent to him in June, Orange now considers the dossier as \"definitively resolved\".\nThis resolution does not satisfy Jean Spadaro at all, who simply wishes that the bill be cancelled. \"I have been a client with Orange for 17 years. I don't want to attack their image, but here, enough is enough. It's a question of principles\", he says, highlighting that \"on forums, dozens of subscribers tell similar stories\". Furthermore, the two credits do not reimburse him for all of the additional fees he has incurred. \"The following months, Orange tried to debit the sum from my account, causing rejection fees from my bank and unpaid fees from the operator. Around \u20ac35 each time\".\nExasperated by the whole affair, Spadaro awaits the end of his current contract with Orange in February next year. \"I will cancel all of my subscriptions to Orange: 3G+ dongle, but also mobile telephone and internet\", he promises. He has been a client with the operator since 1997.\nOrange has promised to work with each case of overbilling. Interviewed on France 2 on Wednesday, Jean-Paul Cottet, director of the business market for France, said that the number of problems were marginal. According to him, 4,000 professionals have opted for a package with a 3G key. It is \"a 24/24 but not unlimited offer. Out of these 4,000 cases, there are 1% which are a problem\" he explained, listing about thirty such \"absurd bills\". \"We will correct that\", he promised. \"We will work with each client\".\nJean-Paul Cottet pointed out that the general public offers better protection to the client. Once the authorised download limit is reached, the service quality diminishes but there is no overbilling.\nAsked about the information given to clients about the conditions of billing elements not included in the package, Elizabeth Alvez, communications representative for the regional department for the North of France, said that \"all the tarification information is available at points-of-sale and on orange.fr. This information is given as part of the dialogue between the client and the vendor. We are obliged to communicate the prices.\" Nevertheless, one must first of all take the time to read the entire contract with the salesperson before signing."}
{"id": "144424", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144424", "title": "Somali pirates attack US-flagged ship, vessel evades capture", "text": "The \"Maersk Alabama\", a US-flagged container ship that was hijacked by Somali pirates seven months ago, was attacked off the coast of Somalia. The pirates, however, could not capture the vessel. \nThe US Navy's 5th Fleet, based in Bahrain, reported that four pirates riding in a fast skiff came within 270 meters of the container ship. The \"Maersk Alabama\" was about 965 kilometers off the northeast coast of Somalia and was steaming toward the Kenyan port city of Mombasa when it came under attack.\nThe Navy said the crew of Maersk Alabama undertook evasive maneuvers and deployed long-range acoustical devices, which make noise painful to the human ear. The crew also responded with small-arms fire after pirates fired automatic weapons at the ship. The pirates abandoned the attack without causing injuries or damage to the vessel.\nAbdullahi Nor, who said he was a spokesman for the pirates, commented on the incident. \"We have attacked a ship with an American flag \u2014 we tried to throw our ladders for climbing [but] it sped and [has] gone away. It narrowly escaped and opened fire on us. One of our colleagues was injured in the attack.\" Nor claimed to have communicated with the ship's attackers via satellite telephone.\nUS Vice Admiral Bill Gortney, from the Naval Forces Central Command, issued a statement in which he praised \"Maersk Alabama\"'s owner and crew for following maritime industry's best practices, including having a security team on board to help prevent a hijacking.\n\"Due to \"Maersk Alabama\" following maritime industry\u2019s best practices, such as embarking security teams, the ship was able to prevent being successfully attacked by pirates. This is a great example of how merchant mariners can take pro-active action to prevent being attacked,\" he remarked.\nIn April, the 155-meter vessel made international headlines when it was seized by pirates who held captain Richard Phillips hostage at gunpoint for five days in a lifeboat. He was freed by US commandos who killed three of the pirates.\nA spokesman for the European Naval Force described the second attempted hijacking of the Maersk Alabama as \"pure chance.\"\nWednesday's attack came soon after a report released by the United Nations, which said the presence of international warships off the coast of Somalia, as well as improved efforts by ships to protect themselves, have considerably reduced the number of successful hijackings in the region this year, especially in the Gulf of Aden.\nBut the report, submitted by UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon, noted that intensified anti-piracy activity in the Gulf of Aden is also forcing pirates to hunt for targets in the Indian Ocean, closer to the island nation of the Seychelles.\nSince the beginning of October, seven of the eight vessels seized by pirates have been in the vicinity of the Seychelles. Recently, the government began allowing the US Navy to use the airport in the capital Mahe to deploy unmanned aerial vehicles to combat piracy. The Seychelles also signed an agreement last week to allow European warships and military personnel to pursue pirates from the high seas into Seychellian waters and to use necessary force. "}
{"id": "144425", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144425", "title": "European Union to train Somali security forces", "text": "The European Union said on Tuesday that it plans to train hundreds of Somali security forces and possibly expand its anti-piracy mission off Somalia's coast, in an effort to bring stability to the war-torn Horn of Africa nation.\nThe agreement to train Somali forces was reached during a meeting of European Union defense ministers in Brussels, Belgium. The details of the plan remain sketchy, but the idea is to train the Somalis in Uganda in close collaboration with the Ugandan government - a main supplier of African Union peacekeeping troops in Somalia.\nAt a press conference on Tuesday, EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said up to 2,000 Somali security forces had requested special training to fight against a growing armed insurgency in Somalia.\n\"How much we're going to do [train] and how much it's going to be [must be discussed] with the forces of the African Union and Uganda in particular is something to be discussed. and the same thing goes with the duration,\" he said. \"Then what is the speed of the distribution of tasks between Ugandan trainers and our trainers. But it will not be a big operation in the sense it will not require trainers in the thousands. It will probably be in the hundreds, not the thousands.\"\nEU officials remarked that they do not believe the Somali operation will dilute separate efforts to build up a European police training mission in Afghanistan.\nThe EU also plans to extend its own anti-piracy mission off Somalia's shores into 2010. Solana said that the 27-member bloc is also considering broadening the operation to target Somali ports and so-called \"mother ships\" that provide support to the pirates.\n\"Now some ideas have been placed on the table on making some focalization of the ports in which we know the pirates operate and something with the mother ships, which are really deep into the sea, where [...] some pirates get their help from there,\" he noted. \"This is going to analyzed by the military authorities and by us to see if something can be done.\"\nSomali pirates have attacked hundreds of vessels in recent years, and are now expanding their terrain. On Tuesday, an EU naval force reported that Somali pirates had captured a chemical tanker with a North Korean crew off the Seychelles Islands. Separately, Spain announced Somali pirates had release a trawler after holding a crew of 36 hostage for more than six weeks. "}
{"id": "144426", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144426", "title": "New poll indicates Barack Obama's approval rating under 50%", "text": "A new survey released today suggests that US President Barack Obama's approval rating has fallen below 50% for the first time in his presidency.\nThe poll, released by Quinnipiac University in Connecticut, shows Obama's approval rating at 48% among registered voters, down two percent from last month.\nThe survey shows that support for the president's handling of the war in Afghanistan has also dropped, from 52% last month to 48% now, and also indicated that 43% approved of the president's handling of the economy, down from 47% in October.\nThe survey found Obama more popular among women, with 52% of those surveyed approving of the president's performance, compared to 47% among men. \nIt also suggests the president has wide support among blacks and Hispanics \u2013 with 89% of African Americans and 62% of Hispanics backing him; however, according to the poll 49% of whites disapprove of his job performance. According to the poll, the president's approval dropped as age and income increased.\n\"Although President Obama's job approval rating is below 50% for the first time nationally, it is not statistically different from his 50% approval rating in October. Nevertheless, in politics symbols matter and this is not a good symbol for the White House,\" said the assistant director for the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, Peter Brown.\n\"Increasingly, the President finds himself with two different coalitions, one that backs him on domestic matters and a completely different one that backs him on Afghanistan. That could create a challenge to his considerable political skills,\" he continued. \"One reason the President's approval for his handling of the Afghanistan situation may be falling is the criticism he is not deciding on troop levels quickly enough.\"\nThe Quinnipiac poll was conducted among 2,518 registered voters nationwide between November 9 and November 16. It had a margin of error of plus or minus two percent."}
{"id": "144429", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144429", "title": "Russia may delay launch of &quot;Angara&quot; rocket due to funding cuts", "text": "Russian space officials have said that the launch of the new Angara carrier rocket might be delayed for about a year due to lack of funds. Anatoly Perminov, head of the Federal Space Agency Roscosmos, made the announcement today.\n\"There is a serious delay in the construction of launch facilities [for Angara] due to the shortage of financing from the Defense Ministry. The problem is that this is not in our control, we are doing everything that we can on our part,\" Perminov said. He noted that the ministry didn't completely cut the budget, but lowered it substantially.\nLaunch facilities for the rocket were initially to be made ready by 2010, with the launch scheduled for the year after that. Perminov commented that the rocket itself was being constructed on schedule.\nThe Angara rocket, which is being constructed by the Khrunichev center, is intended to transport heavy loads of up to 24.5 metric tons into orbit, but with a low level of impact on the environment. They will be used for both military and civilian purposes, and are to be used in joint space station projects and for launching satellites into orbit."}
{"id": "144431", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144431", "title": "British army bomb disposal expert killed in Afghanistan", "text": "A British soldier has been killed in a bomb explosion in the Helmand Province of Afghanistan, according to an announcement from the Ministry of Defence on Wednesday. The soldier, who came from Braintree, in the English county of Essex, has been named as 28-year-old Corporal Loran Owen Christopher Marlton-Thomas. He was an army bomb disposal expert who was from 33 Engineer Regiment. He had joined the British Army in 1998.\nLoren was clearing explosive devices in the Gerishk District of the Helmand Province in the country on Sunday when a bomb explosion seriously injured him. He died on Monday. With the death of this soldier, the total number of military personnel that have been killed in Afghanistan since 2001 has increased to 234. Nicola, the wife of the bomb disposal expert, said: \"Loren was Army-barmy right back to being a Cadet. He did the job he loved and paid the ultimate price for his friends, comrades and country. We are proud to say we knew and loved him. A true hero in our eyes \u2014 you may be gone but you will never ever be forgotten.\" She married the soldier, who was nicknamed \"Loz\", in June 2008.\nLoren's mother also spoke of her grief. \"I'm devastated. I just can't take in what has happened. All his photos are around the house and I don't want to think that I won't see him again,\" she commented. \"Loren was due home at the end of this month for two weeks and we were planning an early Christmas before he went back. He was coming out of Afghanistan for good in March.\"\nNot long before his death, the soldier himself spoke to BBC News about his occupation. \"Each time we go out, we see a broad spectrum of devices, so it can be from the rudimentary devices all the way to quite well put together component parts,\" said Loren. \"For the lads who are doing the searching, the colour has drained from their faces quite a few times. For myself, I'm a little further back but still I'm worrying about the guys on the ground so for me it is nerve-wracking as well.\"\nLieutenant Colonel David Southall is the Commanding Office of 33 Engineer Regiment. He spoke of Loren: \"[He] was a man of great courage and commitment, a gifted Junior NCO (Non-Commissioned Officer) who was truly passionate about his profession. He revelled in his Search Team Commander role, with skills honed on operations in both Northern Ireland and Iraq. 'Loz' was one of life's optimists who always led from the front; whatever the challenge, you would always find him right in the thick of it. His role, in leading teams to find Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), was undeniably amongst the toughest in Helmand province. Despite this, Loz was one of the most irrepressible and positive Junior Commanders I have met. With a smile on his face, his natural charm, confidence and soldiering skill meant men followed him instinctively. Loz made the ultimate sacrifice whilst striving to rid Afghanistan of IEDs and make the country a safer place for both our troops and the Afghan people. Our thoughts are with his wife, Nicola, and family; we share their grief. Loz will not be forgotten.\""}
{"id": "144433", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144433", "title": "Article/144387/Illinois tollway worker jailed for stealing fines", "text": ""}
{"id": "144435", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144435", "title": "Article/144345/Czechs and Slovaks celebrate twenty years since Velvet Revolution", "text": ""}
{"id": "144438", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144438", "title": "Article/144425/European Union to train Somali security forces", "text": ""}
{"id": "144442", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144442", "title": "Article/144426/New poll indicates Barack Obama's approval rating under 50%", "text": ""}
{"id": "144445", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144445", "title": "Article/144431/British army bomb disposal expert killed in Afghanistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "144447", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144447", "title": "Article/144429/Russia may delay launch of &quot;Angara&quot; rocket due to funding cuts", "text": ""}
{"id": "144452", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144452", "title": "Article/144341/Daimler acquires stake in winning team Brawn GP, changes its name to Mercedes Grand Prix", "text": ""}
{"id": "144458", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144458", "title": "Senator Xenophon of Australia calls for criminal investigation into Scientology", "text": "In a speech Tuesday in the Australian Senate, Senator Nick Xenophon called for a criminal investigation of Scientology. Senator Xenophon, an independent politician from South Australia, also requested that police and the Australian parliament investigate whether or not Scientology should retain its tax-exempt status within the country.\nSenator Xenophon tabled letters written to him from former members of the Church of Scientology, which asserted the organization had participated in coerced abortion, abuse, embezzlement, false imprisonment, and hiding information about the deaths of its members.\n\"Scientology is not a religious organisation. It is a criminal organisation that hides behind its so-called religious beliefs,\" said Senator Xenophon in his speech to the Australian Senate. He detailed statements made in the letters he received from former Scientologists that included a father who said he was pressured by Scientology executives to cover up the deaths of his two daughters, and a man who said he had participated in mandating that pregnant female members of the organization have abortions. \n\"These victims of Scientology claim it is an abusive manipulative and violent organization,\" said the Senator. In his speech, he noted that the \"St. Petersburg Times\" newspaper of Florida reported on former executives within Scientology who had spoken out critically about the organization. These former Scientology executives said they had been subjected to physical abuse by the organization's leader, David Miscavige. They detailed attempts by the organization to manipulate staff members and perform intelligence operations intended to safeguard the organization's secrets.\nIn a statement, the Church of Scientology called Senator Xenophon's speech an \"outrageous abuse\" of parliamentary privilege. Scientology representative Virginia Stewart questioned why the former Scientologists had not contacted the organization itself, \"If these people had key issues, then how come they haven\u2019t contacted the church officially? ... I think it's a bit disingenuous that someone stands up in parliament, where they can say whatever they want.\"\nKevin Rudd, the prime minister of Australia, commented that Senator Xenophon brought up \"grave allegations\" against Scientology. The prime minister stated, \"I share some of those concerns but let us proceed carefully and look carefully at the material which he has provided before we make a decision on further parliamentary action.\" Prime minister Rudd acknowledged, \"many people in Australia have real concerns about Scientology\".\nScience fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard founded Scientology in 1953, and its activities have been the source of controversy in Australia for years. Until 1973, the organization was banned in Western Australia and Victoria. In 1983, a High Court ruling acknowledged its religious status.\nOn October 27, the Church of Scientology was convicted of organized fraud by a court in France. On October 24, it was revealed that Academy Award-winning film director Paul Haggis had left the organization after a letter he wrote to Scientology spokesman Tommy Davis was made public. Scientology is currently under investigation in Belgium."}
{"id": "144459", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144459", "title": "Article/144458/Senator Xenophon of Australia calls for criminal investigation into Scientology", "text": ""}
{"id": "144461", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144461", "title": "Article/144424/Somali pirates attack US-flagged ship, vessel evades capture", "text": ""}
{"id": "144465", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144465", "title": "French operator Orange bills a doctor \u20ac160,000 for a month's Internet usage", "text": ""}
{"id": "144467", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144467", "title": "Article/144423/Mobile operator Orange bills French doctor \u20ac160,000 for one month of Internet use", "text": ""}
{"id": "144468", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144468", "title": "Article/144397/UN criticises Israel's latest settlement plan, angry reaction from US and UK", "text": ""}
{"id": "144471", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144471", "title": "Herman Van Rompuy named as first permanent EU President", "text": "Belgian Prime Minister Herman Van Rompuy has been chosen as the first permanent President of the European Council, at a meeting of European Union leaders today in Brussels.\nBaroness Catherine Ashton of the United Kingdom has been selected as the first High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. The positions are both newly created by the Lisbon Treaty.\nFollowing a week of negotiations, Sweden's Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt was attempting to find a compromise among the leaders of the EU's 27 member states, after division over candidates had previously failed to result in a unanimous decision. Van Rompuy's selection finally took place today, and fairly quickly, over a dinner meeting among European leaders.\n\"I did not seek this high position, I didn't make any steps to achieve it, but from tonight I take on this task with conviction and enthusiasm,\" Van Rompuy said at a news conference after being chosen.\n\"Europe must be in every member state's advantage,\" he continued. \"This cardinal principle leds me to a two-track approach. First of all, I will consider everyone's interests and sensitivities. Even if our unity is our strength, our diversity remains our wealth. Every country has its own history, its own culture, its own way of doing things. Our journey may be toward a common destination, but we will all bring along different luggage.\"\nHe also promised to ensure that every country in the EU will emerge victorious from any decision taken. He is to officially become the EU president on January 1 of next year. \nInitially, former United Kingdom Prime Minister Tony Blair was a popular candidate for President. However, the relatively unknown Van Rompuy, apparently backed by France and Germany emerged as a compromise. Germany had denied backing Van Rompuy, despite its ambassador to Belgium saying to the \"De Morgen\" newspaper that \"The German government is in favour of Prime Minister Van Rompuy, and if his candidacy fails it will not be because of Berlin.\""}
{"id": "144472", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144472", "title": "Uruguay qualify to take last spot in 2010 FIFA World Cup", "text": "Uruguay have qualified for the 2010 World Cup following a 1:1 draw with Costa Rica; Uruguay won on a 2:1 aggregate when they won 1:0 on Saturday. With the win all 32 teams have qualified for the 2010 games. On the same day Algeria, Greece, Slovenia, Portugal and France also qualified for the tournament. \nSebastian Abreu scored for Uruguay first when he headed in a goal. Walter Centeno scored for Costa Rica but a draw failed to seal a win for Costa Rica and lost the game and the chance to qualify for the 2010 World Cup. The game continued despite it being stopped after five minutes media started scuffling with the Costa Rica substitutes. \nWith Uruguay\u2019s qualification they join other South American teams Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Chile. Two-time former winners Uruguay missed the 2006 World Cup after losing in a qualifier to Australia, who have also qualified for next year\u2019s tournament. \nNext year\u2019s World Cup will see the return of several teams to the tournament. The host South Africa are making their first appearance since 2002 along with Denmark, Nigeria, Cameroon and Slovenia. Chile last appeared in 1998, Greece in 1994 and Algeria in 1986. New Zealand and Honduras have also qualified, their last appearance was in 1982 and North Korea have not competed in the World Cup since 1966. \nOther teams that have qualified include The Netherlands, South Korea, Japan, Ghana, England, Spain, C\u00f4te d'Ivoire, Germany, Italy, Mexico, the United States and Switzerland. Serbia and Slovakia will be making their first appearance as a single team. Serbia has previously qualified as Yugoslavia and Serbia and Montenegro, while Slovakia previously played as Czechoslovakia.\nThe tournament is due to start in South Africa on the June 11, 2010 and last for one month. "}
{"id": "144475", "revid": "85322", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144475", "title": "EU leaders set to pick new President", "text": ""}
{"id": "144489", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144489", "title": "Seven die from H1N1 swine flu virus; total virus victims in Wales rises to 21", "text": "Seven people in Wales have died as a result of the H1N1 swine flu virus. This increases the total number of people who have died from the virus in that country to 21. Dr. Tony Jewell, chief medical officer for Wales, had said that this was expected to happen.\nHe said: \"The four UK Health Ministers have agreed that the second phase of the swine flu vaccination programme should focus on all children aged six months and over and under five years. Evidence shows that young children are suffering the greatest overall impact from the disease. They are particularly vulnerable to complications and more likely to become seriously ill and need hospital treatment than other groups. Sadly, this week, we have seen a further increase in swine flu-related deaths. However, we are aware that a number of these people had been seriously ill for some time. This is a tragedy for the families and friends of the individuals but unfortunately, we have been expecting to see an increase in the number of deaths. This is the same for seasonal flu in the winter.\"\nThe Welsh Assembly Government have said that they knew of somebody who was in Wales from another country dying from an illness related to swine flu. Dr. Jewell also said: \"Whilst reported cases of swine flu have recently started declining, it is too early to draw any conclusions about the number of future cases.\""}
{"id": "144492", "revid": "85322", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144492", "title": "EU leaders set to pick first permanent President", "text": ""}
{"id": "144495", "revid": "85322", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144495", "title": "Article/144471/Herman van Rompuy named as first permanent EU President", "text": ""}
{"id": "144497", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144497", "title": "At least nineteen dead after suicide bomb blast in Pakistan", "text": "A suicide bomber has killed at least 19 people around a courthouse in the city of Peshawar, Pakistan.\nWitnesses said that the powerful explosion occurred during rush hour. Several security personnel and lawyers are among the victims, and doctors reported that some of those injured are in a critical condition.\n\"One policemen \"[sic]\" has been martyred and four injured in the attack,\" said a senior police official, Mohammad Karim Khan.\nSenior police officer Sahibzada Anis, speaking to reporters, said that the suicide bomber was on foot and detonated the device when security guards stopped him for a search at the main entrance. The blast damaged several cars parked nearby. \"The attacker was on foot and blew himself when guards tried to search him at the gates of the court,\" he said.\nThursday's suicide attack in Peshawar took place hours after missiles fired by a suspected American drone killed at least four suspected militants and wounded five others in the North Waziristan region, on the Afghan border. The area is a known stronghold of Afghan and al-Qaeda militants.\nTaliban insurgents have intensified attacks in the country \u2014 particularly in and around Peshawar \u2014 after the Pakistani army launched an offensive against militant bases in South Waziristan. Officials said that since early last month more than 300 people have died in bombings and militant raids on government, civilian, and Western targets in the country."}
{"id": "144499", "revid": "22784", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144499", "title": "Article/144472/Uruguay qualify to take last spot in 2010 FIFA World Cup", "text": ""}
{"id": "144501", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144501", "title": "Severe flooding hits Cumbria, England", "text": "Parts of the English Lake District in the county of Cumbria have suffered severe flooding on Thursday, with forecasters predicting further rain. As of 21:09 GMT there were six severe flood warnings (the highest alert in the UK Flood Warnings system) in force in the county, with a large number of flood warnings and watches also in force across the region.\nAccording to BBC News, the main street in the town of Cockermouth is under several feet of water, and around 200 people were being evacuated by helicopters. At least 350 homes in the Elliot Park district of Keswick are also reported to be without power.\nA number of local roads are flooded (including the A6 in Kendal). The West Coast Main Line railway is also reported as subject to disruption due to flooding between Oxenholme and Carlisle. Some mainline services are terminating\nat either Carlisle or Preston. Local services between Carlisle and Barrow are also reported to have delays.\nSome properties in Keswick, Cockermouth and Kendal had already been evacuated under pre-existing emergency plans.\nRobert Runcie, the Environment Agency's director of flood and coastal risk was quoted as saying: \"After persistent heavy rain combined with saturated ground and full rivers across Cumbria, the decision was taken to evacuate residents in towns and villages across the Lake District, before the onset of serious flooding.\"\n\"Since early on Thursday we have been helping emergency services coordinate community groups that are going house-to-house ensuring people were taking precautions and evacuated where necessary. These emergency plans were established following the Cumbria floods of 2005 and have worked successfully. The last thing we want is floodwater putting lives at risk.\"\n\"We urge people to take care and check the latest flooding situation and sign up to our free flood warnings service or by calling 08459 881188.\"\nEarlier Cumbrian police had advised against non essential travel, and against fell-walking entirely.\nChief Superintendent Kevin McGilloway of Cumbria Constabulary stating \"All the agencies are working together with local people to ensure they are kept as safe as possible during the severe weather which is hitting some parts of the county. We are asking people not to travel unless it is absolutely necessary.\" He also gave some advice, \"Pedestrians in areas where there are floods, such as Cockermouth, Keswick, Penrith and Kendal, are being urged not to attempt to walk through flood waters. Anyone who notices blocked drains are also being urged not to put themselves at risk by attempting to unblock them. The key message is for people who are affected by the floods to be prepared, to try and protect any properties that are liable to flooding. Look out for one another including vulnerable friends and neighbours. Anyone in affected areas should ensure they carry mobile phones, torches, waterproofs and other equipment they may need and ensure they have all essential medication with them.\"\nIn Kendal, demand for sandbags has been high. A spokesperson for South Lakeland council stated:\n\"More than 1,000 sandbags have already been collected from our depot and we have ordered 4,000 more to meet the demand.\"\nThe Mayor of Keswick praised efforts by those involved in the flood response. \"It is all hands to the pump, really\" he said. \"The emergency services are well co-ordinated and have been fantastic.\""}
{"id": "144502", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144502", "title": "Central Michigan quarterback sets passing record, becomes finalist for award", "text": "Central Michigan University senior quarterback Dan LeFevour has become the all-time leader in passing yardage in Mid-American Conference history. \nLeFevour broke the MAC career record by reaching a total of 12,000 yards as his team won a 35\u20133 victory over Ball State University Wednesday night. He surpassed the record of Byron Leftwich, who had achieved a total of 11,993 passing yards during his career at Marshall University from 1999 to 2002. LeFevour has also achieved MAC career records for passing yards, total offense (14,861 yards), completions (1,083), and attempts (1,628), and ranks third in touchdown passes (96).\nLeFevour has also been named a finalist for the Johnny Unitas Golden Arm Award, which is awarded to the top quarterback in college football. Thaddeus Lewis from Duke University, Colt McCoy from University of Texas, Zac Robinson from Oklahoma State University, and Tim Tebow from University of Florida were also selected to be finalists from a previous list of ten candidates. The award will be given on December 11 at the Tremont Grand Meeting &amp; Banquet Facility in Baltimore."}
{"id": "144505", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144505", "title": "Victims of London jetliner crash sue Boeing", "text": "Ten passengers on board a British Airways jet that crashed in London's Heathrow Airport are suing the manufacturer of the aircraft. Documents filed before a court in Chicago, Illinois claim that Boeing were responsible for design flaws with the fuel system.\nThe Boeing 777 crash-landed early in 2008 after engine power was lost on final approach, coming down short of the runway. The aircraft was severely damaged. The United Kingdom's Air Accidents Investigation Branch is still investigating, but interim reports have indicated that engine components became clogged with ice developing in the fuel.\nThe crew of the aircraft were praised for their handling of the emergency, avoiding the perimeter fence and nearby houses. None of the 136 passengers and 16 crew were killed but some of those suffered serious injuries, including broken bones and facial injuries. Some were left unable to fly and there were cases of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.\nThe case, run by London firm Stewarts Law, is that Boeing are liable for the design of the engine component upon which the ice settled during the accident. \"Our clients are not critical of BA and feel that the pilots performed heroically in guiding the aircraft down in exceptionally difficult circumstances,\" said the partner in charge of the case, Stuart Dench. \"However the two interim reports from the Air Accident Investigation Branch suggest design defects in the aircraft's fuel system and in particular its limitations in the prevention of dangerous ice build-up. The passengers we represent are therefore prepared to take on Boeing in its home court in Chicago, which is undoubtedly the most appropriate jurisdiction for this case.\"\nBoeing may seek to have the case heard in London before the High Court. If successful, the claimants are estimated by the media to be able to claim US$1 million (\u00a3600,000)."}
{"id": "144506", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144506", "title": "Article/144497/At least nineteen dead after suicide bomb blast in Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "144508", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144508", "title": "Severe flooding hits Cumbria", "text": ""}
{"id": "144509", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144509", "title": "Article/144489/Seven people die from H1N1 swine flu virus, total number of deaths from virus in Wales increases to 21", "text": ""}
{"id": "144512", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144512", "title": "Seven people die from H1N1 swine flu virus, total number of deaths from virus in Wales increases to 21", "text": ""}
{"id": "144514", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144514", "title": "Article/144501/Severe flooding hits Cumbria, England", "text": ""}
{"id": "144520", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144520", "title": "Ireland requests replay of FIFA World Cup play-off with France", "text": " The Football Association of Ireland (FAI), Irish Minister for Sport, Taoiseach and Facebook social network groups are requesting a replay of the controversial FIFA World Cup play-off between Ireland and France in the interests of Fair Play. The FAI lodged an appeal with FIFA and also contacted the French Football Federation (FFF), it appears FAI hopes FFF may agree that a replay is fair play. Both captians, Thierry Henry and Robbie Keane, have called for a replay. \nThe Irish supporters, who in the past have won the FIFA Fair Play Award, are angry after a blatant double handball by Thierry Henry enabled France to score the extra-time goal that cost Ireland entry to next year\u2019s FIFA World Cup finals in South Africa. Most Irish anger has been directed at FIFA, although French captain Thierry Henry has admitted handling the ball. \nFAI has argued that there is a strong precedent; in 2005 where FIFA invalidated the result of a FIFA World Cup qualification match between Uzbekistan and Bahrain on the basis of a technical error by the match referee. However, Law 5 of the Laws of the Game state that: \"The decisions of the referee regarding facts connected with play, including whether or not a goal is scored and the result of the match, are final.\" and a source at Fifa headquarters in Switzerland said that \u201cthere is no way the game can be replayed\u201d. The generic concept of fair play is a fundamental part of the game of football and the Fair Play Campaign was conceived largely as an indirect result of the 1986 FIFA World Cup in Mexico, when the handball goal by Diego Maradona.\nThe referee Martin Hansson and (referee's assistants) Stefan Wittberg and Fredrik Nilsson were unable to see the incident but didn't ask Thierry Henry if he handled the ball. Its hoped the mistake won't cost the Swedish referee's a place in South Africa. FIFA's Fair play policy is playing by the rules, using common sense and respecting fellow players, referees, opponents and fans. The French union representing the nation\u2019s gym teachers declared outrage at what it called \u201cindisputable cheating.\u201d\nMinister for Sport Martin Cullen wrote to FIFA president Sepp Blatter urging him to call a rematch in the interests of fair play. Taoiseach Brian Cowen raised the issue with French president Nicolas Sarkozy on the fringes of last night\u2019s EU summit. French Prime minister Fran\u00e7ois Fillon said \u201cneither the French government nor the Irish Government should interfere in the functioning of the international federation\u201d. "}
{"id": "144523", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144523", "title": "Article/144520/Irish requesting replay with France", "text": ""}
{"id": "144526", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144526", "title": "Article/144505/Victims of London jetliner crash sue Boeing", "text": ""}
{"id": "144535", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144535", "title": "Irish requesting replay with France", "text": ""}
{"id": "144537", "revid": "70202", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144537", "title": "40th H1N1 swine flu death recorded in Scotland", "text": "An adult who had underlying health problems has died on Friday as a result of the H1N1 virus. This brings the total number of deaths from the virus in Scotland to 40.\nThe victim who contracted the virus came from . The person is currently remaining unidentified.\nNicola Sturgeon, the current in Scotland, said: \"People with underlying health conditions are at greater risk of complications which is why we are prioritising the vaccine for this group. We are vaccinating as soon as vaccines arrive in the country and those people who accept the invitation will be vaccinated by Christmas.\"\nThis announcement comes one day after the Scottish Government announced that healthy children between the ages of five months and six years would be getting a jab to try and prevent swine flu in the forseeable future. Around 260,000 children are to get the jab, Nicola Sturgeon said.\nShe announced: \"The decision has been made in line with independent scientific advice from the [JCVI]. It is their advice which has guided us so far in all the decisions around the vaccination programme. Advice from the JCVI is that young children are more at risk of contracting the virus and the highest rate of hospitalisations has been in the under-five age group, so that is the key consideration. However, the vast majority of young children, in common with the rest of the population, have mild symptoms and they will recover relatively quickly, but we want to ensure that young children are fully protected against the virus.\""}
{"id": "144539", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144539", "title": "Quad crash kills fourteen year-old in County Londonderry, Northern Ireland", "text": "A 14-year-old boy has been killed in an accident involving a quad bike in County Londonderry, Northern Ireland. The boy has been identified as Paddy McErlean, who crashed near his house in the town of Maghera.\nWhat is believed to have happened is that Paddy was travelling on an all-terrain vehicle with a 16-year-old boy along a rural road at around 2200 GMT on Thursday when the vehicle smashed into a post, the boys were then thrown from the road. The 16-year-old boy is critically injured and as of yet has not been identified.\nAnn Scott, who is the head teacher in St. Patrick's College, which is the high school that Paddy attended, said: \"This tragic accident really has brought a profound sense of loss to the school. The loss of Paddy, who was only 14, has just shocked everybody at the college. He really contributed a lot to the school, he was full of life, he was such a lovely young lad, very popular with the staff and pupils and we will really miss him so terribly.\""}
{"id": "144540", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144540", "title": "Suicide bomber kills sixteen in Afghanistan", "text": "Afghan police said today that a suicide bomber riding a motorcycle blew himself up in the southwestern part of the country today, killing at least sixteen people. Two children and one police officer were among the dead, and dozens of others were injured.\nAfghan officials say the suicide bomber targeted a busy area of the city of Farah, which is the capital of a province by the same name. The provincial governor, Rohullah Amin, told the Voice of America news agency that the blast occurred near his compound and shattered his office's windows.\nNo one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack, but Amin suggested that attacks such as these are the hallmark of the Taliban.\nIn two separate incidents in the eastern part of Afghanistan, two roadside bombs also killed at least four people. The violence comes a day after Hamid Karzai was sworn in for a second term as president. "}
{"id": "144541", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144541", "title": "Suspected US drone attack kills eight in Pakistan", "text": "Pakistani officials said that a suspected US drone attack has killed at least eight people today, including foreign militants, in the country's northwest.\nThe officials said that two missiles were fired at a compound being used by suspected Taliban militants in Mir Ali village, in North Waziristan, a region on the Afghanistan-border that is said to be a militant stronghold.\n\"At least eight people were killed in the drone attack. A compound used by militants was targeted,\" said an unnamed official to the Agence France-Presse (AFP) news agency.\nPolice official Mohammad Haroon said to the Reuters news agency that \"it was a remote-controlled bomb. Two policemen died on the spot, while a third has succumbed to his injuries a short while ago.\"\nUS military officials generally do not confirm attacks such as these, but its armed forces and Central Intelligence Agency employees in Afghanistan are the only forces that deploy pilotless drones in the region.\nAt least 65 similar drone strikes have killed about 625 people in Pakistan since August of last year, according to AFP."}
{"id": "144544", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144544", "title": "UK lawyer comments on court case against Boeing over London jet crash", "text": "On Thursday, ten of those on board British Airways Flight 38 launched a case against Boeing over the accident before a court in Illinois. They are suing over an alleged flawed design that allowed an ice buildup to bring the 777 jet down at London's Heathrow Airport. Scottish advocate Peter Macdonald spoke to \"Wikinews\", commenting on the case and explaining the surrounding legislation. He has experience of litigating aviation accidents.\nAlthough investigations are ongoing, the United Kingdom's Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) has issued interim reports indicating ice buildup on an engine component. As the jet passed over Siberia on its journey from Beijing, China it encountered significantly reduced temperatures. The AAIB has determined that the fuel was at a temperature below 0\u00b0C for an unusually long duration. This is believed to have caused water in the fuel \u2014 which met all relevant international standards \u2014 to have frozen into crystals. \nA build-up of ice developed on a component called the fuel/oil heat exchanger. This restricted the flow of fuel to the engine, resulting in an \"uncommanded engine rollback\" \u2014 a loss of power \u2014 on approach for landing. Investigators initially struggled to produce enough ice under test conditions but later discovered that at high concentration, fuel can form ice at very low temperatures in enough quantity to seriously restrict fuel flow. This does not occur when fuel demand is lower, as the hot oil then becomes sufficient to entirely melt the ice. It was only when extra fuel was pumped in from the tanks for the landing that the crystals became a problem. The fuel/oil heat exchanger is a dual purpose part designed to simultaneously melt fuel ice and cool down engine oil by passing oil pipes through the fuel flow.\nThe crew of the aircraft were praised for their handling of the emergency, avoiding the airport's perimeter fence and nearby houses to crash land short of the runway. None of the 136 passengers and 16 crew were killed but some of those suffered serious injuries, including broken bones and facial injuries. Some were left unable to fly and there were cases of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).\nThe crash was triggered by highly unusual circumstances; the first AAIB report noted that cold fuel behaving in this manner was an \"apparently hitherto unknown phenomenon.\" As part of the investigation, data of 141,000 flights of 777s equipped with the engine model involved \u2014 the Rolls-Royce Trent 800 \u2014 was reviewed without finding any relevant circumstance similar to the accident flight, although there was later a similar incident in the United States in which the aircraft continued safely after repowering one engine; the second did not lose power.\nGiven the circumstances surrounding the case, \"Wikinews\" asked Peter Macdonald if the plaintiffs intended to prove that Boeing knew or should have known the Rolls-Royce powerplant was dangerously defective by design. \"I rather suspect that there may be product liability legislation in place in whichever US jurisdiction is being used,\" Macdonald explained. \"Such statutes normally do not require proof of fault, nor do they require proof of knowledge. All that you have to show is that there was a defect in the product which caused the losses concerned... If I am correct that it is a product liability suit, then the fact that this is the first such accident matters not.\"\nMacdonald went on to discuss the international legislation and how it interacts to the plaintiffs and the three companies involved \u2014 Boeing, British Airways and Rolls-Royce. Only Boeing is currently named in an action over the case. \"There are several reasons why the plaintiffs will wish to sue Boeing in the States,\" he said. \"Were the plaintiffs to seek redress in a court in the United Kingdom, it is unlikely that the relevant part of Boeing would be subject to jurisdiction here.\" He also pointed out that \"US damages are generally higher than English damages.\"\n\"As to whether Boeing should settle, that all depends upon the basis of the action. If it is a fault [negligence] based action, they will be able to defend it. If fault is not needed, that is why they would want the action dismissed, forcing litigation in the UK.\" In the UK, a product liability suit \"would ordinarily be directed against the importers, i.e. British Airways... It would be a simple matter to sue BA here [the UK] for the physical injuries and their financial consequences,\" said Macdonald. \"That leaves RR [Rolls-Royce]. I assume that the engine was made in the UK. They would be liable for a defect in terms of the Consumer Protection Act 1987, Part I.\" This piece of UK-wide legislation states that \"where any damage is caused wholly or partly by a defect in a product [the manufacturer] shall be liable for the damage.\" Damage includes injuries.\nUS courts decide international jurisdictional issues under the Jones Act, passed as a result of Bhopal litigation, \"which makes it much more difficult for a foreigner to sue in the US if the accident did not happen there... My restricted understanding of that is that it is likely that it would be difficult to remove an action from a US court where the aircraft was made in the US.\" He further pointed out that the court would require there to be an alternative court with jurisdiction over the issue. \"It may well be that the relevant part of the Boeing group is not subject to the jurisdiction of the English courts... I have seen cases where it was made a condition of the grant of an order under the Jones Act that the defendants would submit to the jurisdiction of a court in Scotland and that they would not take a plea of time bar in the even that an action was raised within three months of the court order.\"\nHe then addressed the international law with regards to what could be claimed for against air carriers such as BA. In a previous case against the same airline, Abnett v British Airways, the House of Lords ruled in 1997 \"that the only remedy for an injured passenger on an international flight is to sue under the Warsaw Convention, Article 17, incorporated into our law by the Carriage by Air Act, 1961.\" The Warsaw Convention governs liability for international commercial airlines. At the time, the House of Lords was the highest court of appeal in the UK, although it was recently replaced by the Supreme Court. The Abnett case referred to British Airways Flight 149, in which Iraq captured the aircraft and occupants when it landed in Kuwait hours after Iraq invaded in 1990. Peter Macdonald represented Abnett in this case.\nThe Convention \"provides a remedy for \"bodily injury\". Interestingly, the term only appeared in the final draft of the Warsaw Convention. There is no mention of the term in the minutes of the many sessions which lead up to the final draft. It was produced overnight and signed later that day.\" This term creates difficulties in claiming for mental problems such as the fear of flying or PTSD, although Macdonald points out that \"there is a large amount of medical literature which details physical and chemical changes in the brains of people who are suffering from PTSD.\"\nIn King v Bristow Helicopters, heard before the House of Lords in 2002 \"held that PTSD was not a \"bodily injury\", but expressly left the door open for someone to try to prove that what is known as PTSD is the manifestation of physical changes in the brain which have been brought about by the trauma. Such a litigation is pending in Scotland.\" Macdonald is acting in this case.\nActions against Boeing are not bound in this way, as the Warsaw Convention only applies to airlines, making the States an attractive place to sue due to the issues with demonstrating jurisdiction against the relevant part of the Boeing group in the UK. Another reason why the plaintiffs would prefer to sue in America is that in the UK \"there would be liability [for BA], and that would be subject to a damages cap. An action in the US [against any defendant] would probably have the same cap, but is likely to award damages more generously in the event that the cap is not reached.\"\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "144549", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144549", "title": "Article/144544/UK lawyer comments on court case against Boeing over London jet crash", "text": ""}
{"id": "144550", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144550", "title": "Mutated strain of H1N1 virus detected in US and Norway", "text": "Health officials in both the United States and Norway have confirmed the presence of a mutated strain of the H1N1, swine flu virus in several patients in the countries. The mutation is resistant to current treatments for H1N1 such as tamiflu, oseltamivir and zanamivir.\nAt least three patients in Norway were confirmed to have the mutated strain of H1N1, with two of the cases being fatal. Health officials say the three cases are not related and isolated from one another.\nAt least four new cases of the mutation were detected in patients at Duke University Medical Center in North Carolina. Three of the four cases were fatal, but the same patients also had severe underlying illnesses before they caught influenza. Two prior cases of the mutation in the same state, were reported in the Summer of 2008. Health officials say none of the cases are related.\nDirector of the Center for Disease Control's Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, Anne Schuchat says the cases are appearing in the U.S. \"sporadically.\"\n\"It's just too soon for us to say what this is going to mean long term. It's an important finding for the influenza virologists, and they're looking into it. [The mutation] has no implications for how good the match of the vaccine is and no implications for treatment with antiviral medicine,\" said Schuchat during a press conference.\nHealth officials in other countries such as Mexico, China, Japan, Ukraine and Brazil, also report cases of the mutation."}
{"id": "144552", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144552", "title": "Article/144550/Mutated strain of H1N1 virus detected in US and Norway", "text": ""}
{"id": "144554", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144554", "title": "UK family wins asbestos payout in death of railway worker", "text": "The family of a railway worker in Oxford, United Kingdom whose death was tied to cancer caused by asbestos exposure received a payout of approximately \u00a3100,000.\nIn 2005, Dudley Maasz was diagnosed with mesothelioma, a disease resulting from exposure to asbestos. He had been exposed to the substance during his time in the 1940s as a railway worker for Great Western Railway, where he took part in cleaning engines and serving as a fireman. Maasz died in July 2006. \nThe company BRB (Residuary) Ltd., the successor to British Railways Board, came to an agreement to give Maasz's family a payout of \u00a398,000 and costs as a settlement.\nBrigitte Chandler, the Maasz family's solicitor, told BBC News, \"We were able to establish that Mr Maasz death was caused by asbestos during his employment at the Oxford works.\" \nDudley Maasz's brother Norman described him to BBC News as outgoing, and a \"friendly chap\". He said that he had noticed his brother begin to complain of shoulder pain approximately four years ago, and subsequently began to sleep more and later was bedridden a majority of the time. \n\"One day I looked at him and thought \u2014 my goodness \u2014 he was half the size, he'd been eaten away, I felt so sorry for him,\" said Norman Maasz.\nBBC News reported that no individual from BRB (Residuary) Ltd. was available to provide a comment about the payout to the Maasz family."}
{"id": "144555", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144555", "title": "Large Hadron Collider restarted", "text": "The Large Hadron Collider, a vast scientific experiment to smash together sub-atomic particles, moved a step closer to its goal on Friday night. Physicists announced they had sent protons all the way round the 27 km ring beneath the France\u2013Switzerland border, for the first time since a major failure 14 months ago.\nThe experiment, the largest of its kind in the world, was first switched on with great fanfare in September 2008, but suffered an electrical fault just nine days later. This caused a leak of ultra-cold liquid helium, resulting in severe damage. Repairs have cost approximately \u00a324 million, on top of the \u00a36 billion spent originally.\nParticles were injected into the ring at around 1500 GMT on Friday, and just after 1930 GMT the first completed circuit was confirmed. Further testing is planned for Saturday.\n\"We've still got some way to go before physics can begin, but with this milestone we're well on the way,\" stated Rolf Heuer, director-general of CERN, the European research group running the collider.\nThe Large Hadron Collider is designed to smash together particles at almost the speed of light, creating conditions similar to those only moments after the Big Bang. By studying these collisions, scientists hope to shed light on theories such as supersymmetry and the Higgs boson. The six physicists Guralnik, Hagen, Kibble, Higgs, Brout, and Englert who predicted this particle in 1964 were recently awarded the 2010 J. J. Sakurai Prize for Theoretical Particle Physics for this work.\nBarring further problems, the first collisions are scheduled to take place in January next year."}
{"id": "144556", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144556", "title": "Article/144540/Suicide bomber kills sixteen in Afghanistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "144560", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144560", "title": "Article/144541/Suspected US drone attack kills eight in Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "144562", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144562", "title": "Article/144554/UK family wins asbestos payout in death of railway worker", "text": ""}
{"id": "144570", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144570", "title": "Winfrey announces end of 'Oprah'", "text": "Oprah Winfrey has announced that she will retire from her talk show on September 9, 2011, during season 25. Winfrey made the announcement on Friday's broadcast of \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\". Suppressing tears, she explained that careful thought and prayer had gone into her decision. \"Twenty-five years feels right in my bones and feels right in my spirit\", she told her audience.\n\"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" was first televised on September 8, 1986. For the first ten years she competed with other talk shows by discussing relationships and parallel subjects. In the late 1990s her show changed focus to incorporate stories relating to spirituality and human interest.\nWinfrey has had lasting effects on the city of Chicago, Illinois. The surrounding neighborhood of Harpo Productions was rundown prior to the company's success. Chicago residents have expressed concern over what would occur if Winfrey were to leave. According to the Associated Press, citizens view \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" as, \"a reminder of what has been, and what could be lost.\"\nNews sources speculate that Winfrey will air a replacement on the \"Oprah Winfrey Network\" in 2011."}
{"id": "144571", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144571", "title": "Article/144555/Large Hadron Collider restarted", "text": ""}
{"id": "144573", "revid": "22784", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144573", "title": "Article/144502/Central Michigan quarterback sets passing record, becomes finalist for award", "text": ""}
{"id": "144586", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144586", "title": "14-year-old boy killed in quad bike crash in County Londonderry, Northern Ireland", "text": ""}
{"id": "144589", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144589", "title": "Vietnam denies blocking social networking site Facebook", "text": "The Vietnamese government have denied blocking the social networking site Facebook. For several days users of the Vietnamese version of the site have reported problems when trying to access their page. \nFPT, the state internet provider has said that they are working with several foreign companies to solve a problem blocking connection to US servers. But workers at several web firms have reported that the government has ordered them to block Facebook. \nIn a statement released by Facebook they said they \u201cwould be very disappointed if users in any country were to have difficulties accessing its site\u201d. \nFacebook was launched in 2004 and has over 300 million users. The site has previously been blocked by Syria, China, and Iran. "}
{"id": "144592", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144592", "title": "Article/144537/40th H1N1 swine flu death recorded in Scotland", "text": ""}
{"id": "144596", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144596", "title": "Article/144539/Quad crash kills fourteen year-old in County Londonderry, Northern Ireland", "text": ""}
{"id": "144598", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144598", "title": "Mine explosion in northeastern China kills at least 42, dozens more trapped", "text": "An explosion at a gas mine in northeastern China has killed at least 42 people today, state media reported. 66 more miners are feared to have been trapped as well. Another 400 were able to escape safely.\nThe news agency Xinhua said that 528 workers were in the mine, located in the Heilongjiang province, when the explosion occurred at about 02.30 local time (18.30 UTC).\nThe blast was strong enough to shake buildings nearby, and some survivors said they were knocked unconscious. \"I passed out for a while. I found I was shrouded by heavy smoke, when I regained consciousness. I groped my way out in the dark,\" said a 27 year-old electrician, Wang Xingang, to Xinhua.\nRescue operations are still ongoing for those trapped in the mine. State television said that 156 rescuers were at the scene searching for more survivors."}
{"id": "144599", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144599", "title": "Article/144598/Mine explosion in northeastern China kills at least 42, dozens more trapped", "text": ""}
{"id": "144602", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144602", "title": "Article/144589/Vietnam denies blocking social networking site Facebook", "text": ""}
{"id": "144609", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144609", "title": "Rocket strike near hotel in Afghan capital injures four", "text": "Afghan officials have said that a rocket apparently fired at a luxury hotel in Kabul injured four people today, despite falling short of its target.\nAn Interior Ministry spokesman, Zamary Bashary, told the Voice of America news agency the rocket exploded on a road between a hospital and the Serena Hotel, which is in the center of the capital, near the presidential palace, government ministries and embassies. The incident happened at about 18.15 local time (13.45 UTC).\n\"It was a rocket that hit in front of the Rabia Balkhi hospital. We have four wounded, three are civilians and one is a police officer,\" said Zamarai Bashary, a spokesman for the interior ministry, as quoted by the Agence France-Presse news agency.\nTaliban militants fired rockets at the same hotel last month, which is heavily guarded. No one was injured in that attack, which came on the same day that a suicide-bomb explosion killed five UN staff members and two Afghans at their quarters in another part of Kabul.\nTaliban militants also attacked the Serena Hotel in January 2008, in a commando-style assault that killed at least eight people."}
{"id": "144611", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144611", "title": "Article/144609/Rocket strike near hotel in Afghan capital injures four", "text": ""}
{"id": "144618", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144618", "title": "Sakurai Prize awarded for Higgs boson theories", "text": "The American Physical Society has awarded its 2010 J. J. Sakurai Prize for Theoretical Particle Physics to six scientists for their contributions to theories on the origin of mass, including the key concepts of the Higgs boson and Higgs mechanism. The recipients are:\nThe full citation stated the prize was awarded \u201c\"For elucidation of the properties of spontaneous symmetry breaking in four-dimensional relativistic gauge theory and of the mechanism for the consistent generation of vector boson masses.\"\u201d The J. J. Sakurai Prize will be presented at the APS 2010 meeting in Washington, DC at a special Ceremonial session in February 2010.\nThe Higgs mechanism is a key element of the electroweak theory that forms part of the Standard Model of particle physics, and of many models that go beyond it. The papers that introduce this mechanism were published in the journal \"Physical Review Letters\" in 1964 and were each recognized as milestone papers by \"PRL\"\u2019s 50th anniversary celebration.\nThe Large Hadron Collider at CERN and the Tevatron in the United States are searching for a particle, the Higgs boson, that will constitute evidence for this theory. Because of its importance this particle is often referred to as the \"God Particle\". The LHC, a vast scientific experiment to smash together sub-atomic particles, recently moved a step closer to its goal. On Friday physicists announced they had sent protons all the way round the 27 km ring beneath the France\u2013Switzerland border, and on Monday announced the first successful collisions. This follows a major setback which shut down the collider for 14 months."}
{"id": "144621", "revid": "85322", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144621", "title": "Herman van Rompuy named as first permanent EU President", "text": ""}
{"id": "144624", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144624", "title": "Oprah Winfrey announces retirement", "text": ""}
{"id": "144625", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144625", "title": "2010 Sakurai Prize awarded for 1964 Higgs Boson theory work", "text": "In recognition for the discovery of the Higgs Boson and Higgs mechanism, the American Physical Society has awarded the 2010 J. J. Sakurai Prize for Theoretical Particle Physics to Drs. C. R. Hagen, University of Rochester; G. S. Guralnik, Brown University; Tom Kibble, Imperial College London; Robert Brout, Universit\u00e9 Libre de Bruxelles; Fran\u00e7ois Englert, Universit\u00e9 Libre de Bruxelles; and Peter Higgs, University of Edinburgh, Emeritus. \nThe 2010 prize was awarded \u201c\"For elucidation of the properties of spontaneous symmetry breaking in four-dimensional relativistic gauge theory and of the mechanism for the consistent generation of vector boson masses.\"\u201d The J. J. Sakurai Prize will be presented at the APS 2010 meeting in Washington, DC at a special Ceremonial session in February 2010. \nThe mechanism is the key element of the electroweak theory that forms part of the standard model of particle physics, and of many models, such as the Grand Unified Theory, that go beyond it. The papers that introduce this mechanism were published in Physical Review Letters in 1964 and were each recognized as milestone papers by PRL\u2019s 50th anniversary celebration.\nPresently, Fermilab's Tevatron and the Large Hadron Collider at CERN are searching for a particle that will constitute evidence for this significant discovery. This particle is often referred to as the \"God Particle\". The Large Hadron Collider, a vast scientific experiment to smash together sub-atomic particles, moved a step closer to its goal tonight. Physicists announced they had sent protons all the way round the 27 km ring beneath the France\u2013Switzerland border, for the first time since a major failure 14 months ago."}
{"id": "144626", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144626", "title": "Iraqi lawmakers delay vote on electoral law", "text": "An Iraqi parliament session aimed at resolving deadlock on electoral law required for general elections in January ended without agreement yesterday.\nLawmakers were expected to vote on the much-delayed law, but parliamentary officials said the proceeding is delayed until later today in hope of finding a solution acceptable to all political factions.\n\"The vote is postponed until tomorrow,\" parliamentary speaker Iyad al-Samarrai told the press yesterday.\nIraqi Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi vetoed the proposed election law several days ago, saying that he wanted more representation for Iraqis living abroad, many of whom are Sunni Arabs. After the veto, Iraq's electoral commission halted general-election preparations.\nThe parliament has been considering whether the Sunni vice president had the legal right to scrap legislation presented to the presidency council.\nMembers of Iraq's electoral commission say the deadlock over the election law will probably delay January's elections."}
{"id": "144628", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144628", "title": "Article/144570/Winfrey announces end of Oprah", "text": ""}
{"id": "144631", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144631", "title": "Afghan Member of Parliament escapes assassination attempt", "text": "Afghan police have said that a member of parliament (MP) escaped an assassination attempt on Friday night near the capital of Kabul. Five bodyguards, however, died.\nAn Afghan district police chief told the Voice of America news agency that a remote-controlled bomb targeted the convoy of Abdul Rab Rasoul Sayyaf as it moved along roads outside the capital. It was not immediately clear who was responsible for the attack.\nSayyaf is an MP from the Kabul province, and a former warlord. This was not the first attempt on his life; he has survived at least one other similar attack.\nSayyaf was one of the ex-mujahideen leaders who fought against the Taliban in the mid-1990s. He became a strong supporter of Afghan President Hamid Karzai's government and the international forces after the United States-led invasion in 2001. The Human Rights Watch, however, has accused him of war crimes."}
{"id": "144632", "revid": "2327", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144632", "title": "Winfrey announces end of Oprah", "text": ""}
{"id": "144634", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144634", "title": "US healthcare bill passes Senate vote", "text": "The US Senate, by a vote of 60 to 39, has decided to begin debate on legislation crafted by majority Democrats to reform the country's health care system.\nThe measure, opposed by Republican senators, was voted on Saturday evening. One Republican Senator, of Ohio, was not present and did not vote.\nIt was not clear until earlier in the day whether the Democrats would have enough votes to bring the bill to the Senate floor for full debate.\nDuring the day, two moderate Democrats announced they would support the move during a rare Saturday session. That gave the Democrats the 60 votes they needed to move the measure forward. The legislation is intended to extend health care coverage to millions of uninsured people, prevent insurance companies from denying benefits, and limit the growth of spending on medical care.\nIn the rare session, opposition Republicans criticized the bill, saying it would drive up the cost of insurance and add to the nation's deficit.\nWhile Democrats won the vote to begin debate, passage of the bill is not certain. Some moderate Democrats have signaled strong opposition to components of the bill, including a government-run option to compete with private insurers. However, the Senate version does allow states to opt out of the public option.\nSenator , who was one of the Democrats who had wavered on whether to support the bill, decided to vote for it. \"Although I don't agree with everything in this bill, I have concluded that I believe that it is more important that we begin this debate to improve our nation's healthcare system for all Americans, [...]\" she said. Two other Democratic senators said they were uncertain about the bill, and did not make up their minds until hours before the vote, adding to the uncertainty.\nThe Congressional Budget Office said the Senate bill, unveiled on Wednesday, would cost $849 billion over the next decade. Analysts say the plan also would reduce U.S. deficits by nearly $130 billion in the same period. If the bill passes, it would have to be merged with one passed earlier this month by the House of Representatives. The House narrowly approved its bill on a sharply divided vote of 220 to 215.\nPresident Barack Obama has asked Congress to deliver legislation to him for signing by the end of the year."}
{"id": "144637", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144637", "title": "Australian Football League to hold match in China", "text": "The (AFL) yesterday announced that it would hold an exhibition game in Shanghai, China. Brisbane will play Melbourne at Jiangwan Sports Centre in the Yangpu District.\nAFL game development head David Matthews told reporters, \"[t]here are big opportunities here [in China] to improve our broadcast position and consider China as an events market. I think we have got the best game in the world, the most spectacular game in the world.\"\nThe AFL had previously told \"Wikinews\" that they had no plans to stage such a game.\nChinese broadcaster Shanghai Media Group will broadcast the match to approximately 20 million homes in southern China. The broadcaster will send a team to a Round One game between Richmond and Carlton to better understand how to broadcast the game."}
{"id": "144638", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144638", "title": "Article/144634/US healthcare bill passes Senate vote", "text": ""}
{"id": "144646", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144646", "title": "Canadian loses health benefits after company finds joyful Facebook pictures", "text": "A 29-year-old woman from Quebec in Canada claims to have lost her long-term health care benefits she was receiving for depression, after her insurance company discovered pictures of her on Facebook smiling and having fun.\nNathalie Blanchard alleges that Manulife Financial cut off her long-term benefit payments because she was \"available to work, because of Facebook.\" She was diagnosed with long-term depression, something her lawyer says keeps her from working. Blanchard was previously employed at IBM.\nPictures posted included Blanchard and others at her birthday party strip tease, as well as smiling on a beach, among various private photos taken while on vacation. She says Manulife told her this is proof that she no longer suffers from depression.\nManulife denies her claims saying they \"would not deny or terminate a valid claim solely based on information published on websites such as Facebook,\", but did not deny using the social networking site for gathering background information on customers.\nAccording to Blanchard, her doctor told her to hang out with friends more and attend social gatherings as well as vacations. Blanchard's lawyer says he is seeking options on how to proceed in an appeal."}
{"id": "144647", "revid": "2327", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144647", "title": "Woman in Canada loses health benefits after pictures posted on Facebook show her having fun", "text": ""}
{"id": "144652", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144652", "title": "Austrlian Football League to hold match in China", "text": ""}
{"id": "144653", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144653", "title": "Article/144631/Afghan Member of Parliament escapes assasination attempt", "text": ""}
{"id": "144656", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144656", "title": "Article/144637/Australian Football League to hold match in China", "text": ""}
{"id": "144659", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144659", "title": "Indonesian ferry sinks, at least nine dead", "text": "Reports from Indonesia now say at least nine people were killed and over 200 rescued today, after a ferry sank in rough waters near Sumatra island.\nThe \"Dumai Express 10\" was sailing from Batam island to Dumai in Riau province on Sunday morning when it sank. Officials blamed bad weather for the accident, but there have been reports that the ferry was severely overloaded.\nSunaryo, the director-general of sea transport, said the ferry's capacity was 273 people, and only 213 passengers were on the manifest, but one official put the number rescued at 292. Sunaryo said the large disparity between reality and the manifest was a \"classic case\" of breaking regulations. \nSeparately, another ferry, the \"Dumai Express 15\" with 278 people on board, ran aground today after it was hit by large waves on its way from Batam to Moro island. Authorities say all passengers and crew survived.\nIndonesians rely heavily on ferries to transport them between the thousands of islands that make up the archipelago. Ferry accidents are common due to bad weather, poor infrastructure and a tendency to overload vessels. Around 800 people have been killed in ferry accidents in Indonesia over the past three years, including at least 232 in an accident off Sulawesi in January this year."}
{"id": "144661", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144661", "title": "British Climatic Research Unit's emails hacked", "text": "Unknown individuals gained access to a server of University of East Anglia's Climatic Research Unit (CRU). As a result, around thirteen years of email correspondence between researchers is now available worldwide. Substantial previously unpublished climate change observations are included.\nAccording to initial reports by TGIF Newspaper and the Watt's Up With That blog, hundreds of emails and documents were made available from a FTP site on a Russian server with an accompanying statement:\nSome journalists suppose that this event is a consequence of increased attention on CRU after it played a substantial role in the IPCC fourth assessment report (2007).\nThe released data is a 62 megabyte zip file, containing around 160 megabytes of emails, pdfs and other documents. Some of the contents have been confirmed as genuine by the head of the University of East Anglia\u2019s Climate Research Unit, Dr Phillip Jones. In an interview with TGIF Newspaper, he stated that a breach of security had taken place and that a large quantity of files had been \"stolen\". The interviewer discussed one of Dr. Jones' published e-mails:\nThe interviewer asked Dr. Jones to explain the phrase \"hide and decline\", but he answered that he had no idea what he meant by using them (as they were made in the context of a discussion taking place 10 years ago), and he had not attempt to mislead:\nIn a press release by the University of East Anglia, Dr. Jones stated that:\nOne such colloquialism, \"trick,\" is frequently used by scientists and engineers to refer to an essential or non-obvious element in the solution of a problem, as opposed to the common political usage connoting deception.\nCommentators argue that the published messages show the researchers' reluctance to publish scientific material, though it contains serious global warming observations. Some of the correspondence portrays the scientists as feeling under siege by skeptics\u2019 and worried that any stray comment or data glitch could be turned against them.\nThe East Anglia University has shut down the original server, from which the information was stolen. A university spokesman stated that data was published without permission, but did not confirm whether \"all\" of the published communication is genuine:\nThe release of the documents comes just weeks before a major climate-change summit in Copenhagen, Denmark, meant to lay the groundwork for a new global treaty to curb greenhouse-gas emissions and fight climate change."}
{"id": "144663", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144663", "title": "2010 Sakurai Prize Awarded for Higgs Boson Theory Work from 1964", "text": ""}
{"id": "144664", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144664", "title": "Article/144625/2010 Sakurai Prize awarded for 1964 Higgs Boson theory work", "text": ""}
{"id": "144666", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144666", "title": "Article/144659/Indonesian ferry sinks, at least nine dead", "text": ""}
{"id": "144668", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144668", "title": "Article/144626/Iraqi lawmakers delay vote on electoral law", "text": ""}
{"id": "144670", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144670", "title": "Astronaut's baby born 200 miles below him", "text": "American astronaut, Randolph Bresnik, is in orbit over 200 miles above the Earth, where he learned of the birth of his daughter Abigail. Lieutenant Colonel Bresnik becomes only the second man to have become a father while in space.\nOnboard Atlantis this morning, the crew were woken by mission control playing \"Butterfly Kisses\", a song chosen by Bresnik's wife Rebecca. Prior to launch, Bresnik joked about the birth expected while on his eleven day mission with the Shuttle, \"this is a pretty good excuse [\"for missing the birth\"] and hopefully she will forgive me later on\".\nThe first-ever father in space was astronaut Mike Fincke in 2004.\nAtlantis's current mission is scheduled to return to Earth this coming Friday, having resupplied the International Space Station and carried out two separate spacewalks. This will be the first time astronaut Bresnik gets to see the newest addition to his family. The couple live in Houston with their adopted three year-old son from Ukraine."}
{"id": "144671", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144671", "title": "Republican groups suspected in gun battle with, failed bombing of, Northern Irish police", "text": "In two separate incidents police in Northern Ireland have come under attack. Both are believed by authorities to stem from organisations linked to the . The two incidents, one an attempted car bombing in Belfast, and the other a shooting in , , led to four arrests by Northern Irish Police. \nA police convoy in the village of Garrison came under ambush overnight. Three gunmen began shooting in the first time officers have been in a firefight in Northern Ireland since a July riot in Belfast. Police returned fire and four people were arrested.\nA separate incident saw a car bomb set off outside the 's headquarters. The car was driven through the Belfast building's security barriers and its 180 kilogram bomb was set off, but failed to detonate properly. Instead it partially exploded and the vehicle caught fire. Neither attack injured anyone.\nThe Republican dissidents seek a united Ireland and have battled to convince Britain to relinquish the Northern territory. After thirty years of warfare and attacks from both sides a 1998 peace deal largely ended the bloodshed. This year, however, violence has been on the increase again starting with the murder of a police officer and two soldiers in two separate March attacks. Since then attacks have been on the rise.\nThree days ago the military was called in to defuse another bomb targeting police. \"It appears that the dissidents are broadening the scale of their attacks,\" said a statement by the Police Board's Alex Attwood. The board is an independent civilian watchdog charged with overseeing the police.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "144674", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144674", "title": "Bomb explosions in northeastern India kill at least seven", "text": "Two bomb explosions in the northeastern Assam state of India have killed at least seven people and injured 25 more today.\nThe blasts, which happened within several minutes of each other, occurred outside of a police station in the town of Nalbari, 70 kilometres from the state capital of Guwahati. According to security officials, the explosives were attached to bicycles.\nPolice believe that the separatist rebels from the United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA) were behind the bombings, but a senior ULFA member denied that the group carried out the attacks. Nobody has yet claimed responsibility.\nThere were reports of another explosion nearby soon after the first to explosions; however, they have not been officially confirmed."}
{"id": "144675", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144675", "title": "Article/144674/Bomb explosions in northeastern India kill at least seven", "text": ""}
{"id": "144677", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144677", "title": "Saudi Arabia fears Hajj swine flu outbreak as four pilgrims die", "text": " \nAs the annual Muslim Hajj pilgrimage to Mecca gets underway, Saudi Arabian authorities have expressed concern swine flu could impact pilgrims. Four, with underlying health issues, have already died.\nTwo men and a woman in their seventies and a seventeen-year-old girl have died, according to the Health Ministry. The men from India and Sudan, the older woman from Morocco, and the teen from Nigeria. None were vaccinated against the virus. \nOne died in Mecca, the others in Medina. All had conditions including cancer and respiratory ailments. The World Health Organisation puts the current swine flu death toll at 6,750. Four more people are in Saudi hospitals in critical condition and a further twelve are recovering in hospital.\nEach year around three million make the pilgrimage. And, Saudi authorities are concerned about the possible spread of the virus. At least one pilgrimage to Mecca is deemed mandatory for every Muslim capable of doing so. Fifteen thousand extra medical staff are deployed, ports and airports screen incomers with thermal cameras, and hundreds of extra hospital beds have been set aside. Visa requirements specify only those vaccinated against the flu strain can apply.\nIn September, Egypt forbade hundreds of Muslims from leaving Cairo for the Hajj after an Egyptian woman returning from a more minor pilgrimage last July became the first swine flu fatality in both Africa and the Middle East. For Ramadan, pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia was banned by Iran for the same reason."}
{"id": "144678", "revid": "11752", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144678", "title": "US astronaut becomes father in space", "text": ""}
{"id": "144680", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144680", "title": "Article/144677/Saudi Arabia fears Hajj swine flu outbreak as four pilgrims die", "text": ""}
{"id": "144682", "revid": "11752", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144682", "title": "Article/144670/Shuttle astronaut in orbit over newlyborn", "text": ""}
{"id": "144684", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144684", "title": "Terrorists in gun battle, failed bombing against Northern Irish police", "text": ""}
{"id": "144686", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144686", "title": "IRA suspected in gun battle, failed bombing against Northern Irish police", "text": ""}
{"id": "144688", "revid": "11752", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144688", "title": "Article/144671/IRA suspected in gun battle with, failed bombing of, Northern Irish police", "text": ""}
{"id": "144690", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144690", "title": "Pirates seize Greek-owned ship off coast of Yemen", "text": "A Kenyan maritime official said today that pirates hijacked a Greek-owned bulk carrier in the Gulf of Aden, near Yemen.\nAndrew Mwangura of the East African Seafarers Assistance Program said the ship, named the \"Red Sea Spirit\" was taken on Thursday, but news of the seizure only emerged earlier today. According to him, the vessel was seized about 36 nautical miles from Balhaf, a Yemeni port.\n\"Red Sea Spirit was taken by gunmen off the Yemeni coast last Thursday. She is flying the Panama flag. She is a Greek-owned bulk carrier,\" Mwangura said.\nSomali pirates are currently holding at least thirteen ships and more than 200 crew. They are still active in the waters off the east coast of Africa, despite the presence of many navies patrolling the region."}
{"id": "144692", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144692", "title": "IRA suspected in gun battle with, failed bombing of, Northern Irish police", "text": ""}
{"id": "144694", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144694", "title": "Article/144690/Pirates seize Greek-owned ship off coast of Yemen", "text": ""}
{"id": "144698", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144698", "title": "Ex-cosmonaut Konstantin Feoktistov dies; Soviet space pioneer was 83", "text": "Pioneering Soviet cosmonaut has died aged 83. A statement by the Russian Space Agency declared that he died of \"unspecified causes\" last Saturday in Moscow. \nFeoktistov was important in the early development of Soviet space travel and was part of the first group spaceflight in history, as part of the mission in 1964. He was also the first civilian allowed to participate in the Soviet space programme. \nHe was born in in 1926 and was wounded whilst serving in WWII. His inclusion in the spaceflight programme was often met by resistance from the Soviet government as he was neither a member of the party or in the military at the time. After his retirement from space travel he continued to work as a designer and engineer for the space programme until 1990, helping to design spacecraft and space stations such as and Soyuz, amongst others. "}
{"id": "144700", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144700", "title": "Shuttle astronaut in orbit over newlyborn", "text": ""}
{"id": "144704", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144704", "title": "Pioneering former cosmonaut Konstantin Feoktistov dies, aged 83", "text": ""}
{"id": "144706", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144706", "title": "Article/144698/Ex-cosmonaut Konstantin Feoktistov dies; Soviet space pioneer was 83", "text": ""}
{"id": "144710", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144710", "title": "US astronaut becomes father while in space", "text": ""}
{"id": "144715", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144715", "title": "Australian sport may be on the cusp of change", "text": "The Independent Sport Panel Report, set up to look into sports funding, was published in Australia last week, prompting debate and speculation for the future of sport in the country. Many in the sector believe the report will prompt changes in the way sport is funded and administered in Australia.\nJohn Coates, President of the Australian Olympic Committee, criticised the report, and several elite sports people have joined Coates' calls for sustained funding to Olympic level sport. Other commentators have welcomed the recommendations, challenging commonly held beliefs that Australians benefit from funding high performance athletes. Such positions call for more resourcing of sport at a participation level rather than performance level.\nKey recommendation areas in the report are:\nAustralians now await a Government response to the recommendations."}
{"id": "144716", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144716", "title": "Former Iranian vice-president sentenced to six years; released on bail pending appeal", "text": "Former Iranian vice-president Mohammed Ali Abtahi has been released on bail pending appeal after being sentenced to six years in prison on Saturday for his part in the protests following the presidential elections in June.\n\"Abtahi was sentenced to six years in prison for acting against national security and propaganda activity,\" an anonymous court official told the \"INSA\" news agency. According to the agency, he was released on bail set at seven billion rials (); under Iranian law, all convictions of a minimum of three months are subject to appeal and bail may be granted for the first twenty days to allow anyone sentenced to lodge one. \"Abtahi was released this afternoon after he paid the bail amount,\" Tehran prosecutor Abbas Jafari Doulatabadi told IRNA.\nAbtahi, who was as a minister and vice-president under President Mohammad Khatami from 1997 to 2005, is amongst thousands who were arrested following protests; two hundred still behind bars of which around eighty have been sentenced to jail and a further five to death. He has remained in custody ever since his arrest. He was convicted of various charges, including \"gathering and plotting against the country's security, propaganda against the regime, insulting the president and participating in an illegal demonstration.\" He also faces further charges of \"keeping classified documents.\"\nOpposition critics have called the prosecutions \"laughable show trials\" and spoken of \"forced confessions\". They have called for the unconditional release of prisoners. On Friday, a United Nations committee passed a vote to approve a non-binding resolution which condemns Iran for its reaction to the protests following the election, criticising Iran's record on human rights, highlighting torture and executions. The committee has also called on the Iranian government to stop persecuting its political opponents and release political prisoners."}
{"id": "144719", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144719", "title": "Article/144715/Australian sport may be on the cusp of change", "text": ""}
{"id": "144722", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144722", "title": "Article/144716/Former Iranian vice-president sentenced to six years; released on bail pending appeal", "text": ""}
{"id": "144741", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144741", "title": "School closed after five-year-old boy dies from suspected swine flu in Buckinghamshire, England", "text": "A five-year-old boy has been suspected to have died from the H1N1 swine flu virus in Buckinghamshire, England. The boy came from Emberton School, which now has just 29 pupils attending.\nHealth tests are currently being carried out to determine whether or not the child did indeed die from the virus. He was admitted to a hospital in Milton Keynes, but later died in the early hours of Sunday morning. At present, the individual remains unidentified.\nSteve Dunning is the principal in the school. Speaking to BBC Three Counties Radio, Dunning said: \"The staff of Emberton School are very saddened to learn of the death of one of their pupils who was a confident, delightful and happy student and will be missed greatly. At this time we are focusing on supporting the children and parents in our small village community. I have spoken directly with the mother and passed on the condolences of all the staff and governors at the school.\"\nThe school has now been closed and is expected to re-open on Tuesday. Dr. Diane Gray, who is the Deputy Director of Public Health in the town of Milton Keynes, said: \"My sympathies go out to his parents, family and friends. We don't yet know the cause of this boy's death. At this stage, there is no need to change normal behaviour - you should continue to go to school, work and any social activities.\""}
{"id": "144743", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144743", "title": "Five-year-old boy dies from suspected H1N1 swine flu virus in Buckinghamshire, England; school closed", "text": ""}
{"id": "144745", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144745", "title": "UK policeman convicted of murdering WPC fianc\u00e9e who died after staged car crash", "text": "A policeman from the United Kingdom pleaded guilty to the murder of his fianc\u00e9e, a female police constable. PC Martin Forshaw, 27, used a steel hammer to bludgeon WPC Claire Howarth, 31, before placing her in her car and staging an accident.\nForshaw's intent had been to convince police that Howarth had died behind the wheel, but officers became suspicious when they found her injuries were severe while the car was virtually undamaged. The trial had been due to start today before Manchester Crown Court but Forshaw confessed to the crime beforehand.\nThe couple met in 2006 and the next year became engaged in Mexico. They were due to fly to St Lucia on the day of the killing but Forshaw had other plans; he, his lover, and their child were booked on a trip to Disneyland in Paris. An argument broke out and Forshaw used a large steel hammer to hit her, in the same room as her dress and packed suitcases.\nHe then drove to an isolated patch of moorland, placed her in the driver's seat and executed a crash into a hedge at 50\u201360 mph. He then dialed 999 and said he had been in a high speed accident. Howarth was found unconscious; she died later that day in a hospital in Bolton.\n\"It was such a poor attempt to make it look like a crash that both the police and the ambulance service were immediately suspicious, and the severity of Claire's head injuries meant they could not have been caused by such a minor crash,\" said lead investigator Andy Tattersall of Greater Manchester Police. \"That caused us to question Forshaw's account and led us to unravelling this tragic sequence of events.\"\nForshaw was sentenced to life imprisonment, of which he will serve a minimum of eighteen years."}
{"id": "144748", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144748", "title": "Reverend Billy Joe Daugherty dies at the age of 57", "text": "Founder of the Victory Christian Centre, Billy Joe Daugherty died aged 57 on Sunday 4:40 am. This followed a short battle with lymphoma. The death was announced by church officials during morning services that day. \nAdam Sanders, Daugherty\u2019s son-in-law spoke about his final hours during the morning services saying, \"We don\u2019t sorrow as the world sorrows, as one without hope [...] We celebrate his life, but at the same time there is sorrow, there is grieving\". His other son-in-law, Caleb Wehrli, spoke emotionally about how the family worshipped up until the end. \nThe Victory Christian Centre is one of the largest churches in Oklahoma with around seventeen thousand members.\nBorn in Tulsa, Oklahoma Daugherty also founded the Christian Centre in Tulsa and the Victory Bible Institute. His work included involvement with a missionary training centre which has sent over one thousand missionaries to several countries around the world. Author, with his wife, of several books he also appeared in his own TV show, Victory in Jesus. \nDaugherty made national news in 2005 when punched at an altar call. The attack required two stitches, but Daugherty chose not to press charges despite visiting his assailant in jail where the inmate showed no remorse; Daugherty penned a book about this incident in his life.\nThe memorial service is planned for the 30th of this month. "}
{"id": "144749", "revid": "206860", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144749", "title": "Italian Air Force transport wreck kills five", "text": " \nA transport aircraft belonging to the Italian Air Force has crashed near Pisa. All five on board the C-130 Hercules were killed.\nThe aircraft was on a training mission when it went down onto a railway line close to a military airport. It had been approaching for landing when it swerved to one side and crashed, according to Pisa's fire brigade. An electrical fire was triggered at the railway line, but no trains were endangered.\nThe plane left the airport at 2:10 p.m. and was returning shortly after at the time of the accident. As well as the fire service, police, ambulances and airport rescue workers attended the scene. The crash was away from the main city and no-one on the ground was injured. An investigation has been launched.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "144751", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144751", "title": "Man misdiagnosed as being in coma for 23 years", "text": "A Belgian man who was thought to have been in a coma for 23 years was in fact conscious yet paralyzed the whole time, as was discovered in 2006. Doctors diagnosed Rom Houben, now 46, as being in an irretrievable coma after a car crash in 1983. \nIt was only after his family's insistence that he be given another PET scan that doctors realised he had been conscious yet unable to move or talk ever since the accident. Doctors and his family slowly taught him to communicate using tiny movements of his feet and eventually through a specially designed keyboard. \nHouben used the keyboard to tell a German newspaper that he 'screamed, but there was nothing to hear' and that when the truth was discovered it was like 'being born again'. \nDespite discovering his consciousness in 2006, Houben's case only came to light recently after a study published in the journal BMC Neurology about coma patients used his case as an example. The study, by Professor Steven Laureys of Belgium's Coma Science Group, suggested that up to four in ten so called 'vegetative state' coma patients may, in fact, be misdiagnosed. "}
{"id": "144754", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144754", "title": "Benet Academy, Illinois students support classmate with leukemia", "text": "Students at Benet Academy in Lisle, Illinois, United States, have raised money and offered support for Jenna McKeown, a classmate who was recently diagnosed with leukemia. \nMiss McKeown, a 17-year-old senior from , was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia on October 28 after she went to the doctor's office with a sore throat and extreme fatigue. She has just finished her first ten-day round of induction chemotherapy at the University of Chicago Comer Children's Hospital. \nNews of the diagnosis spread quickly among the student body with the help of social networking sites such as Facebook. Students formed an online support group and set up a Mass to be held the next morning at 7:15 am in the school's chapel. Students, teachers, and parents attended the service. \nWithin twelve hours of diagnosis, friends made plans to supply enough meals to the McKeown family for the next three months. One thousand orange lapel ribbons were made the following weekend and passed out to students to wear the Monday following Miss McKeown's diagnosis. One senior pupil filmed a video of messages from teachers and students, and several students shaved their heads to show support for their classmate. Kyle Marinko, President of Student Government, announced that orange Livestrong-type gel bracelets are to be sold during the school's annual Christmas Drive fundraiser. \"These activities are to show support and solidarity for Jenna through our thoughts and prayers,\" said Michael Macaluso, an English teacher and moderator of Student Government. \nMiss McKeown's illness is an aggressive, yet curable, form of leukemia; she needs to have two more rounds of chemotherapy and a bone marrow transplant in January. Despite this, she remains positive, adopting the slogan \"Be positive!\" when it coincidentally matched her blood type, B+. In an effort to replenish the supplies needed for this treatment and support other patients in need of transplants, friends and family will staff a blood drive and register people for the National Marrow Donor Program tomorrow at Benet Academy."}
{"id": "144758", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144758", "title": "Article/144749/Italian Air Force transport wreck kills five", "text": ""}
{"id": "144764", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144764", "title": "Four US, eight Afghan troops killed in Afghanistan after attacks", "text": "International security forces in Afghanistan stated today that recent attacks in the country's south and east have killed four US and eight Afghan soldiers.\nA NATO statement said that a bomb killed one US soldier in eastern Afghanistan today; yesterday, three US troops died in gun and bomb attacks in the southern part of the country.\n\"Four ISAF [\"International Security Force\"] service members died in the last 24 hours in Afghanistan,\" read the statement.\nAfghan officials say a roadside bomb in Helmand province killed three Afghan soldiers and wounded another two others on Sunday. Earlier in the day, a border security commander said a roadside bomb in Kandahar province killed five Afghan soldiers.\nThe number of foreign troops killed in Afghanistan in 2009 has now risen to 481 with these deaths; this according to a tally by the Agence France-Presse news agency."}
{"id": "144765", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144765", "title": "Four US troops killed in Afghanistan after attacks", "text": ""}
{"id": "144767", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144767", "title": "Article/144751/Man misdiagnosed as being in coma for 23 years", "text": ""}
{"id": "144774", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144774", "title": "Article/144764/Four US, eight Afghan troops killed in Afghanistan after attacks", "text": ""}
{"id": "144782", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144782", "title": "Ritual sacrifice in Nepal sees 320,000 animals slaughtered to Hindu goddess", "text": "In a tribute to , a Hindu goddess of power, a Nepalese festival began today with the mass of 20,000 buffalo in the village of . Shortly after, 300,000 birds, sheep and goats were similarly ritually slaughtered.\nIt is estimated as many as 750,000 people travelled from India, which recently banned similar mass-sacrifices, to make up the majority of the festival's estimated one million attendees. Member of Parliament skipped Tuesday's legislative meeting, saying that the festival had more importance as a religious celebration.\nAlthough animal rights groups have condemned the ceremony as cruel, the Nepalese government has ignored requests to cancel the festival, held once every five years. Last year, the government banned a similar slaughter during the festival of , and was greeted with angry protests.\nThe meat is taken to local villages, who host large feasts for those in attendance, as it is believed to ward off evil."}
{"id": "144784", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144784", "title": "Article/144754/Benet Academy students support classmate with leukemia", "text": ""}
{"id": "144787", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144787", "title": "Article/144748/Reverend Billy Joe Daugherty dies at the age of 57", "text": ""}
{"id": "144788", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144788", "title": "Benet Academy students support classmate with leukemia", "text": ""}
{"id": "144790", "revid": "3741", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144790", "title": "20,000 buffalo in Nepal sacrificed in Hindu ceremony, 300,000 more animals to follow", "text": ""}
{"id": "144792", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144792", "title": "Article/144782/Ritual sacrifice in Nepal sees 320,000 animals slaughtered to Hindu goddess", "text": ""}
{"id": "144802", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144802", "title": "Death of Kentucky census worker considered suicide", "text": "Kentucky State Police said yesterday that the September 12 death of census worker Bill Sparkman was suicide. His body was found naked in a Clay County, Kentucky cemetery, with \"Fed\" written on his chest and his census identification taped to his neck. This prompted widespread speculation that anti-government sentiment was responsible. However, police now believe that Sparkman deliberately killed himself, and tried to make it look like murder so his son could receive an insurance payout. Trooper Don Trosper, a Kentucky State Police spokesman, said, \"[w]e believe this was an intentional act. We believe the aim was to take his own life.\"\nThis conclusion is based on the police's analysis of several elements of the crime scene; Sparkman was not hanged in the typical manner; his knees were less than six inches off the ground, and he could have avoided death simply by standing up before he suffocated. Captain Lisa Rudzinski, a leader of the investigation stated, \"We do not believe he was placed in that position.\" The letters of the word \"Fed\" were written bottom first, which is unlikely if they had been written by an attacker. The rag found in his mouth contained only Sparkman's DNA. Police also believed he left glasses taped to his head so he could see while preparing.\nPolice suspect Sparkman's motives included debt, failure to find a full-time job, and a desire to provide for his son through his life insurance."}
{"id": "144804", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144804", "title": "Sakurai Prize Awarded for Higgs Particle", "text": ""}
{"id": "144809", "revid": "980", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144809", "title": "Article/144618/Sakurai Prize awarded for Higgs boson theories", "text": ""}
{"id": "144810", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144810", "title": "Article/144741/School closed after five-year-old boy dies from suspected swine flu in Buckinghamshire, England", "text": ""}
{"id": "144827", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144827", "title": "Article/144802/Death of Kentucky census worker considered suicide", "text": ""}
{"id": "144829", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144829", "title": "Israel announces 10 month halt to settlement construction in West Bank", "text": "The prime minister of Israel, Binyamin Netanyahu, told a news conference earlier today that there will be a ten-month stop in the construction of new settlement housing in the West Bank. The Israeli cabinet approved the move by a margin of eleven to one.\n\"We have been told by our friends that once Israel takes the first meaningful steps towards peace, the Arab world and the Palestinians will follow,\" said Netanyahu following the cabinet's endorsement of the move. \"Well, the government of Israel has taken a very big step towards peace today, and I hope the Palestinian and the Arab world will work with us to forge a new beginning for our children and theirs.\"\nThe freeze was made \"out of broad national interests with the aim of encouraging negotiations with our Palestinian neighbours,\" he continued. \"When the period of freeze ends my government will return to the previous policy of building in Judea and Samaria [the Jewish name for the West Bank].\"\n\"This is a far-reaching and painful step [...] We hope that this decision will help launch meaningful negotiations to reach an historic peace agreement that will finally end the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians,\" Netanyahu later said.\nUnder the plan, construction permits for new residential buildings would be put on hold for ten months. The government said that \"natural growth\" \u2014 characterised by the construction of homes by young people, who were raised in the settlements and want to build houses for their own families \u2014 would be exempt from the freeze. Parts of the West Bank that Israel annexed to the Jerusalem municipality would also be excluded from the freeze. The building of schools and places of worship, which will enable settlers to live what Netanyahu described as \"normal lives\", will also continue.\n\"We will not halt existing construction and we will continue to build synagogues, schools, kindergartens and public buildings essential for normal life in the settlements,\" he commented.\nThe prime minister added that there would be no change to Israel's existing policy on the issue of Jerusalem. \"Regarding Jerusalem, our sovereign capital, our position is well-known. We do not put any restrictions on building in our sovereign capital,\" he said.\nSeveral members of the Israeli cabinet expressed their disapproval at the proposal, with the conservative, ultra-Orthodox Shas party boycotting the cabinet meetings.\n\"I think it's a complete crumbling of Netanyahu's position and is contrary to all of his electoral promises. He promised an end to unilateral steps, and here we see him after only a few months in office giving up, even though there is no reciprocity from the Palestinians,\" said the head of the main settler lobby, Danny Dayan, to the Christian Science Monitor. We are 300,000 citizens, living in 150 communities. It is impossible to freeze us. I don't how it will happen, but we will break this freeze.\"\nMany Palestinians also criticised the proposal, mainly because East Jerusalem was not included in the settlement freeze. Nabil Abu Rudeineh, a Palestinian spokesman, said to the Wafa news agency that Palestine \u201crejects returning to peace talks without the complete cessation of settlement activities in the West Bank and Jerusalem.\u201d\nPalestinian prime minister Salam Fayyad also rejected the plan. \"The exclusion of east Jerusalem is a very, very serious problem for us. We are not looking for the resumption of the process just for the sake of it, for it to falter a week or two down the road,\"\nIsrael captured East Jerusalem from Jordanian control, following Israel's victory in the 1967 Arab-Israeli War. The Jewish state annexed that part of the city in a move that was not recognized by the international community.\nEarlier this week, on a visit to Argentina, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas stepped up his campaign to put international pressure on Israel to stop building on lands that Palestinians say are their own. Abbas urged US president Barack Obama, as well as leaders of other nations that support Israel, to press the Jewish state to end its construction of settlements on occupied lands.\nNetanyahu has in the past offered to restrain settlement growth, but today's announcement was the first time that he set a clear timeframe."}
{"id": "144830", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144830", "title": "Jordanian king dissolves parliament, calls for general election two years ahead of schedule", "text": "The King of Jordan, King Abdullah, dissolved the country's parliament on Tuesday, half-way through its four year term, and called for early general elections to be held, up to two years ahead of schedule.\nThe monarch did not immediately provide a reason for the move; however, there have recently been reports accusing the parliament of handling legislation ineptly, and even of being corrupt. The king's decree ordered the civil service to host new elections to replace the 110-member parliament, although an exact date for the polls hasn't yet been named.\nCritics of the parliament have said that its members didn't properly address issues such as unemployment and poverty. The opposition, however, asserted that the house had been disbanded so that the government could use emergency laws to pass legislation.\nKing Abdullah has now disbanded the parliament two times since he came to power in 1999."}
{"id": "144832", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144832", "title": "Jordainian king dissolves parliament, orders general election two years ahead of schedule", "text": ""}
{"id": "144833", "revid": "11752", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144833", "title": "Article/144829/Israel announces 'settlement freeze' over construction in West Bank", "text": ""}
{"id": "144836", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144836", "title": "Israel announces 'settlement freeze' over construction in West Bank", "text": ""}
{"id": "144843", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144843", "title": "Article/144830/Jordanian king dissolves parliament, calls for general election two years ahead of schedule", "text": ""}
{"id": "144847", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144847", "title": "Uninvited couple passes Secret Service checkpoint, crashes White House state dinner", "text": "A couple entered a state dinner when they were univited, passing through several layers of security, and socialized with high-profile guests Tuesday night. \nTareq and Michaele Salahi from northern Virginia arrived at the party at approximately 7:15 pm Tuesday night. They were formally dressed as they passed by a crowd of reporters and cameramen waiting for VIP guests to arrive, even though the couple was neither invited nor on the guest list. A White House official has stated that the couple was never seated at a table. \nAlthough there was a checkpoint that failed to follow proper procedures, the couple still passed through the same security checkpoints as all other guests at the dinner did. A Secret Service spokesman has stated that nobody was under any threat, but it is unclear whether Mr. and Mrs. Salahi were ever near President or Mrs. Obama or the guests of honor, Indian Prime Minister and his wife .\nMr. and Mrs. Salahi later posted photos of themselves at the dinner on Facebook. The couple is known around Washington for promoting wine and polo in Virginia, and they are hoping to become stars in the reality TV show \"\". "}
{"id": "144849", "revid": "177928", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144849", "title": "Uninvited couple passes Secret Service, crashes White House state dinner", "text": ""}
{"id": "144855", "revid": "177928", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144855", "title": "Article/144847/Uninvited couple passes Secret Service checkpoint, crashes White House state dinner", "text": ""}
{"id": "144859", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144859", "title": "Obama declares tougher emission targets before Copenhagen summit", "text": "Barack Obama has set tougher emission targets in a White House speech. He said, the USA intends to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions \"in the range of\" 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83 percent by 2050. Obama will attend the Copenhagen international climate meeting next month, and is going to offer these figures as an official climate change policy.\nObama has also set interim targets for better intermediate control. These are a 30% cut by 2025 and a 42% cut by 2030. But Obama's climate change speeches aren't going very far: Mr Obama is not planning to be present at the summit during the last days, when the world leaders might most possibly finally make a treaty to replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol.\nTo compare, the European Union speaks about cutting its emissions by 20% cut by 2020 and 80% by 2050. But the starting point of the EU and of most of other nations is 1990, while Obama's numbers are in terms of 2005 emissions. The plans proposed by Obama are with a steeper end compared with EU, thus making a slower start.\nEmissions cuts targets\nObservers say some accumulation effect can be caused by domestic policies, which take long to implement on a proper scale, but then give a faster emissions cut. Such policies can include improvements in vehicle fuel efficiency, industries-specific limitations, etc. \nThe White House announcement also contains the list of US representatives at the Copenhagen conference:\nA schedule of US Center presence was made up for certain dates in December, so that the exact ways to achieve the cuts will be discussed."}
{"id": "144866", "revid": "177928", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144866", "title": "Uninvited couple pass Secret Service checkpoint, crash White House state dinner", "text": ""}
{"id": "144873", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144873", "title": "UN nuclear chief says negotiations with Iran at 'dead end'", "text": "The head of the , Mohamed ElBaradei, said earlier on Thursday that the organization has reached a \"dead end\" in a probe into Iran's nuclear program. The IAEA's board is meeting to consider a resolution condemning Iran's nuclear program.\nIn remarks to the IAEA's board, ElBaradei expressed frustration over Iran's failure to cooperate with the Vienna-based agency. ElBaradei leaves office in a few days, at the end of this November, and his remarks have grown sharply more critical of Iran in recent months.\nToday, he said he was disappointed that Iran had not agreed on a deal to further enrich its uranium overseas. The deal has the support of the United States, Russia and France and it aims to provide a safeguard that Iran's uranium is not being used to make a nuclear weapon.\n\"It is now well over a year since the agency was last able to engage Iran in discussions about these outstanding issues. We have effectively reached a dead end, unless Iran engages fully with us,\" he commented.\n\"In my view the proposed agreement presents a unique opportunity after many years of animosity and hostility to address a humanitarian need and create a space for negotiation. This opportunity should be seized and it would be highly regrettable if it was missed,\" he said.\nElBaradei's comments come as the IAEA board is considering a draft resolution on Iran. According to press reports, the draft urges Iran to stop construction of the uranium enrichment site, and to confirm that it has no other hidden nuclear activities. Diplomats are reportedly confident the measure will be passed, but Iran's ambassador to the IAEA told a German newspaper that Tehran would reduce its cooperation with the IAEA to a minimum if that happens.\nSome members of the international community believe that Iran is trying to build a nuclear weapon; Tehran, however, maintains that its efforts are for peaceful purposes only."}
{"id": "144874", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144874", "title": "Mohamed ElBaradei", "text": ""}
{"id": "144876", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144876", "title": "77 dead after flooding in Saudi Arabia", "text": "The worst flooding in 27 years in Saudi Arabia has left at least 77 people dead, and dozens more could be missing. The floods came after torrential rains on Wednesday.\nThe rainstorms mainly affected western parts of the country, including the cities of Jeddah, Rabigh and Mecca, and the surrounding area. Inclement weather hampered the start of the Muslim Hajj pilgrimage in Mecca; however, none of the dead people had been attending the event.\nThe deaths were mainly caused by collapsed homes and high waters, according to officials. Witnesses say many of the casualties had been trapped in vehicles. Many cars had been swept away and city roads were flooded, blocking traffic.\nThe Saudi Arabian Civil Defence Authority reported that emergency crews managed to rescue over 900 people."}
{"id": "144882", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144882", "title": "Article/144876/77 dead after flooding in Saudi Arabia", "text": ""}
{"id": "144890", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144890", "title": "Golfer Tiger Woods injured in car crash", "text": "American golfer Tiger Woods has been injured in a car crash near his home in Orlando, Florida. Woods was reported to have been leaving his home around 2:30 a.m. (EST) in his 2009 Cadillac Escalade, when he collided with a fire hydrant and a tree down the street.\nWoods was taken to Health Central Hospital, and treated for facial lacerations. Early reports described his injuries as \"serious\", but he was released from a local hospital a short time later, and his publicist, Mark Steinberg, has since described the accident as \"minor\". There are also reports that the car's airbags did not deploy, which suggest a low speed collision. Windemere Mayor Gary Bruhn told CNN, \"I think it's nothing more than an accident.\"\nPolice say alcohol did not play a role in the accident. An investigation is ongoing and reports say that charges could be filed against Woods."}
{"id": "144891", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144891", "title": "Tiger Woods injured in car crash", "text": ""}
{"id": "144893", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144893", "title": "Article/144890/Golfer Tiger Woods injured in car crash", "text": ""}
{"id": "144896", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144896", "title": "Article/144873/UN nuclear chief says negotiations with with Iran at 'dead end'", "text": ""}
{"id": "144899", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144899", "title": "UN nuclear chief says negotiations with with Iran at 'dead end'", "text": ""}
{"id": "144901", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144901", "title": "Ferry capsizes in Bangladesh, at least five dead and 50 missing", "text": "A ferry has sunk in Bangladesh earlier today, killing at least five people, according to authorities. About fifty more people were missing after the incident.\nPolice said that the accident occurred as the vessel, called the \"MV Coco-4\", came near a river station at Bhola Island, located 300 kilometres from the Bangladesh capital of Dhaka. The ferry was reportedly overcrowded, and the boat tipped to one side as all its passengers moved to disembark.\n\"It was overcrowded with over 1,000 passengers. It tilted and part of it sank due to crowd pressure as it arrived near the Nazirpur river station,\" said a local police chief, Zakir Hossain, to the Agence France-Presse news agency. He also added that \"many passengers have managed to land safely. But we believe some others who were staying in the cabins were trapped under water. We are trying to rescue them,\" Rescue teams and divers are reportedly searching underwater for bodies.\nFerry accidents are not infrequent in the country; incidents have usually been due to overcrowding, or the use of old vessels. \"At festival time it is really difficult to stop passengers and relevant ferry operators from flouting rules,\" said an officer for the Bangladesh water authority."}
{"id": "144902", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144902", "title": "Namibia votes in presidential election", "text": "Voters are heading to the polls today in Namibia to elect a president and parliament The ruling South West Africa People's Organization is expected to win presidential and parliamentary elections, but a new opposition party is mounting a challenge.\nVoters turned out in large numbers before dawn to cast their ballots. Local journalist John Grobler said many waited for hours to vote because of logistical problems. \"Voting is slow in just about all the polling stations, but especially so at the polling stations where they don't have any laptop computers to verify the potential voters on the actual roll, which means they have to go to the physical paper. And that, of course, takes time,\" he said.\nPresident Hifikepunye Pohamba is running for a second five-year term. His South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO), which has governed Namibia since independence nearly twenty years ago, is expected to win a two-thirds majority in parliament.\nHowever, SWAPO is being challenged by a new party, the Rally for Democracy and Progress. The RDP was formed two years ago after its leader, Hidipo Hamutenya, lost his bid to become SWAPO leader upon the retirement of Namibia's first president, Sam Nujoma.\nVoting will continue for a second day on Saturday and preliminary results are expected sometime next week. "}
{"id": "144905", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144905", "title": "Article/144902/Namibia votes in presidential election", "text": ""}
{"id": "144907", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144907", "title": "Article/144901/Ferry capsizes in Bangladesh, at least five dead and 50 missing", "text": ""}
{"id": "144910", "revid": "206860", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144910", "title": "Zimbabwean cargo plane crashes in Shanghai; three dead", "text": "A cargo aircraft registered in Zimbabwe crashed today at Shanghai International Airport in China. Three of the crew have been killed.\nAnother four people were taken to the Pudong Xinqu People's Hospital after the plane went down on takeoff and burst into flame. Firefighters responded with retardant foam and thick smoke could be seen rising from the airport. The plane, which had been flying to Bishkek in Kyrgyzstan, broke apart in the accident.\nThe crash occurred between 7:40 a.m. and 8:12 a.m. The four surviving crew are reported to be conscious. None are Chinese citizens. Police are currently securing the scene.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "144911", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144911", "title": "Kyrgyzstan", "text": ""}
{"id": "144912", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144912", "title": "Suspected bomb derails Moscow-St Petersburg train, kills at least 25", "text": "An express train travelling from Moscow to St Petersburg in Russia derailed yesterday, leaving at least 25 people dead and 100 more wounded. Authorities suspect a terrorist attack after a possible bomb crater was found beside the line.\nThe trainwreck occurred in the countryside of Tver, near Bologoye. Around 650 passengers were on board the Nevsky Express which was travelling during peak time along one of Russia's most-traversed rail routes. Ninety of the injured are hospitalised, with hundreds of rescue workers attending and three victims being airlifted by helicopter.\nSurvivors say they heard a loud bang just before the crash. \"There was an explosion under the locomotive,\" the driver said as he called the Emergencies Ministry from his mobile phone. \"I do not know what we hit. We are derailed. The locomotive and carriages, I do not know yet what else, everything is in smoke.\"\nThe prosecutor-general has launched a terrorism investigation. Vladimir Yakunin, head of state-owned Russian Railways, said the chief line of enquiry is \"To put it simply, a terrorist attack.\" \"There is objective evidence that ... a blast from an explosive device is one of the explanations for the Nevsky Express incident,\" he said.\nThe \"Interfax\" agency reported the crater was a metre wide. Russian journalists reporting from the scene were unable to locate it. President Dmitry Medvedev has ordered a full investigation and assistance for the victims. The Health Ministry said that over a dozen people remain missing.\nRussian railway infrastructure is poorly maintained and plagued by negligence and alcohol abuse, according to \"The Guardian\". There is also a high concern of terrorism, especially from rebels in Chechnya. Two Chechnyan rebels are accused of a 2007 bombing that derailed a train on the same line, wounding 27 people. \nSources.\n "}
{"id": "144913", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144913", "title": "Suspected bomb derails Moscow-St Petersburg express, killing 25", "text": ""}
{"id": "144915", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144915", "title": "Article/144910/Zimbabwean cargo plane crashes in Shanghai; three dead", "text": ""}
{"id": "144921", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144921", "title": "Article/144912/Suspected bomb derails Moscow-St Petersburg train, kills at least 25", "text": ""}
{"id": "144936", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144936", "title": "Shanghai", "text": ""}
{"id": "144941", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144941", "title": "Article/144859/Obama declares tougher emission targets before Copenhagen summit", "text": ""}
{"id": "144946", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144946", "title": "Five dead, ten critically injured after van carrying children rolls on Louisiana highway", "text": "Five people are dead and ten more are in a critical condition after a minivan packed with children rolled over on Louisiana's highway yesterday. The vehicle's driver lost control after a blowout near .\nThe vehicle's driver, who was among the dead, and a front-seat passenger were the only ones wearing seatbelts. There were thirteen children travelling in the back although there were not enough seatbelts and the van likely only had enough rear seats for ten, according to the .\nThe front driver's side tire on the blew out as the vehicle moved west. The driver lost control of the swerving van, which sideswiped a delivery truck travelling alongside before bouncing across to the center median, where it flipped. It rolled around 200 feet (75 yards) across the median before landing upright in the opposite lanes. Most of the occupants were ejected and four dead children were found lying in the median. No other vehicles were involved and the trucker pulled over uninjured.\nSeveral of the victims were members of the same family from , 75 miles from the wreck. A three-year-old was amongst the dead. The survivors have been taken to two Baton Rouge hospitals and all are in a critical condition. A photograph showed debris strewn around the scene. \"I just saw the vehicle flip about three or four times and kids flying everywhere. It looked to be about 10 to 11 kids out of the car,\" said eyewitness Tammy Hall.\nAlthough drugs and alcohol are not believed to have been involved police have confirmed samples will be taken from the driver to check. The road was closed for two-three hours in both directions. None of the victims have yet been publicly identified.\nSources.\n "}
{"id": "144948", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144948", "title": "Rome", "text": ""}
{"id": "144950", "revid": "180829", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144950", "title": "Prime Minister of Vanuatu loses seat over paperwork error", "text": "Edward Natapei, the Prime Minister of Vanuatu has lost his position and parliamentary seat over a paper work blunder. Natapei was in Trinidad and Tobago at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting and his staff failed to file the paperwork that notified the parliamentary speaker of his absence. \nUnder Vanuatu law, since he missed three consecutive sittings of parliament without notifying the speaker in writing, he must forfeit his seat. In order to comply with the law, Natapei would have needed to submit a signed explanation for his absence to the speaker. The last time a similar event occurred was in the 1980s when a Member of Parliament lost his job for failure to notify the speaker of his absence. Despite appealing the forfeiture, he was not reinstated.\nNatapei is now on his way back from Trinidad and Tobago. The nation is currently being run by a caretaker government. Members of Parliament are set to vote for a new Prime Minister next week. \nNatapei was elected Prime Minister on September 22, 2008, as President of the socialist, Anglophone Vanua'aku Pati party. After 14 months in office, he now holds the record for the shortest term as prime minister in Vanuatu's history. He first served as Prime Minister from 2001\u20132004."}
{"id": "144953", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144953", "title": "Article/144950/Prime Minister of Vanuatu loses seat over paperwork error", "text": ""}
{"id": "144954", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144954", "title": "Soviet statue returns to Moscow", "text": "On Saturday, Worker and Kolkhoznitsa, a giant statue of Soviet times, was returned to a pedestal in Moscow, Russia. It was done after a long five-year restoration process since the monument was dismantled in 2003. The statue was initially expected to return in 2005, but when the Expo 2010 was awarded to Shanghai instead of Moscow the restoration process was stalled due to a shortage of funds.\nThe 24.5-meter high \"Worker and the Kolkhoz Woman\" holding a hammer and a sickle, the symbols of the Soviet Union, steel monument by Vera Mukhina and Boris Iofan was first showed at an exhibition in Paris in 1937. It was later returned to Russia after the exhibition and installed to a place just outside the Exhibition of Achievements of the People's Economy. The monument became a recognisable symbol of the Soviet Union after it was chosen as a Mosfilm studio logo in 1947 featuring in the opening credits of many Soviet films produced by the studio.\nIt's expected that the statue would now last for centuries. Plans for the future of the monument included construction of an exhibition hall in the statue's pedestal. One of the rejected projects was to introduce a parking lot beneath the statue's square.\nEarlier this week, on Monday, an exhibition of Vera Mukhina works was opened in St. Petersburg's Russian Museum, presenting more than 200 of her sculptures, graphic works, and decorative and applied arts, including the several sketches and studies, as well as the Worker and Kolkhoz Woman monument\u2019s model.\nThe official monument reopening ceremony is scheduled for December 3\u20135."}
{"id": "144957", "revid": "1933", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=144957", "title": "Main Page/PrintEd", "text": ""}
{"id": "145086", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145086", "title": "Article/144946/Five dead, ten critical after van carrying children rolls on Louisiana highway", "text": ""}
{"id": "145088", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145088", "title": "Article/14456/Prime Minister of Vanuatu loses seat over paperwork error", "text": ""}
{"id": "145089", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145089", "title": "Article/144954/Soviet statue returns to Moscow", "text": ""}
{"id": "145092", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145092", "title": "Iran to build ten new uranium enrichment plants", "text": "Iran announced earlier today that it plans to build ten new uranium enrichment plants. Iranian media reported that the Cabinet approved the construction of the plants just two days after the (IAEA) censured Iran for its nuclear activities.\nThe proposed facilities, reported to be similar to Iran's main nuclear plant at Natanz, would vastly increase the nation's capacity to produce enriched uranium. Iranian media quoted President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as saying that Iran should get to the point where it can produce 250 to 300 tons of nuclear fuel each year.\n\"We should reach a position where we can produce from 250\u2013300 tonnes of nuclear fuel a year. To do this we must employ new centrifuges with a higher speed,\" he commented.\nAhmadinejad said the new Iranian-designed centrifuges used to enrich uranium will have higher speeds than those currently being used. He added that Iran \"is not joking around with anyone\" when it comes to defending its nuclear rights.\nThe announcement seems to make good on a warning earlier in the day that pressure on Iran would force it to reduce its cooperation with the IAEA. Parliament speaker Ali Larijani said western pressure may force parliament to review the country's stance toward the UN nuclear agency. \nIranian Members of Parliament said that \"we consider the behaviour of the IAEA to be that of double standards and political. We want it to give up this double standard which has tarnished its reputation.\" \nThe five-plus-one group of nations working on the Iran nuclear issue \u2014 the US, France, Britain, Russia, China, and Germany \u2014 all voted Friday for the IAEA censure of Iran for defying international demands to freeze uranium enrichment and for secretly building a nuclear facility. The move appeared to take many officials in Tehran by surprise.\nThe tensions coincide with problems over an IAEA proposal to send Iran's uranium abroad for enrichment, part of a plan to ease some concerns that Iran might be pursuing nuclear weapons. Iran denies the charge, saying that the programme is for civilian purposes only. The country has offered counter-proposals to the deal, but the IAEA has not accepted any of them.\nAn unnamed US official said that \"if [the plant construction is] carried out, [it] would constitute yet another violation of Iran's continuing obligation of suspension of all enrichment-related activities. There remains a fleeting opportunity for Iran to engage with the international community, if only it would make that choice.\""}
{"id": "145093", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145093", "title": "Boat accident in Democratic Republic of the Congo kills at least 73", "text": "A boat sank in the western Democratic Republic of Congo on Wednesday, killing at least 73 people, according to reports.\nThe International Committee of the Red Cross says the cargo boat was carrying passengers, as well as logs, when it sank in Lake Mai-Ndombe in the Bandundu province, apparently due to inclement weather. Local reports say the vessel was not authorized to carry passengers.\nThe Red Cross announced 272 people survived the accident, but others remain missing and it is feared their bodies are trapped underneath the sunken barge.\n\"We are at 272 survivors and 73 dead. These are bodies that we have found along the shores of the lake. There are still some people missing. But we don't know how many because there was no ship's manifest,\" said Dominic Lutula, the president of the Congolese Red Cross, said to the Reuters news agency.\nBoat accidents are fairly common in the Democratic Republic of Congo because vessels are often overloaded and not properly maintained. The country has many rivers but few paved roads, forcing many people to rely on boats for transportation."}
{"id": "145096", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145096", "title": "Article/145092/Iran to build ten new uranium enrichment plants", "text": ""}
{"id": "145097", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145097", "title": "Five dead, ten critical after van carrying children rolls on Louisiana highway", "text": ""}
{"id": "145099", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145099", "title": "Article/145093/Boat accident in Democratic Republic of the Congo kills at least 73", "text": ""}
{"id": "145109", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145109", "title": "LHC sets new particle energy acceleration record", "text": "The world's Large Hadron Collider accelerated its protons to an energy of 1.18 TeV at 00:44 GMT+1 today. This set a new world record, surpassing the 0.98 TeV record set at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory's Tevatron collider, which was commissioned in Chicago in 2001. The event came ten days after the LHC collider restart.\nYesterday at 20:48 UTC, one proton beam was accelerated to 1050 GeV (1.05 TeV) in LHC. Three hours later, the next record was set by two beams of opposite direction, 1.18 TeV each.\nThe CERN researchers are delighted with the quick progress and are happy with the excellent performance of the machine. Steve Myers, director of accelerators and technology at the Cern particle physics laboratory near Geneva, commented on LHC optimistically, comparing it with the twenty-year old Large Electron-Positron Collider (LEP): \"I was here 20 years ago when we switched on Cern's last major particle accelerator, LEP. I thought that was a great machine to operate, but this is something else. What took us days or weeks with LEP, we're doing in hours with the LHC. So far, it all augurs well for a great research programme.\"\nHigh proton beam energy is needed to get many proton-proton collisions. However, all elements of the system need to be monitored carefully, and sudden energy increases are undesirable to ensure that the machine operates within normal parameters, in order to avoid a repeat of the superconductive magnet quench and consequent six-tonne liquid helium leak catastrophe on September 19, 2008, nine days after the first start. The damage caused by the leak, and the subsequent repairs and upgrades to the LHC that were needed, caused a delay of more than a year in the commissioning of the collider.\n\"We are still coming to terms with just how smoothly the LHC commissioning is going. It is fantastic. However, we are continuing to take it step-by-step, and there is still a lot to do before we start physics in 2010\" said Cern's director general Rolf Heuer."}
{"id": "145125", "revid": "23903", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145125", "title": "Article/145109/LHC sets new particle energy acceleration record", "text": ""}
{"id": "145130", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145130", "title": "4-year-old boy killed by dog in Liverpool, England", "text": "A four-year-old boy has been killed by a dog in the city of Liverpool in Merseyside, England. The child has been identified as John Paul Massey. The animal belonged to his uncle. The boy's 63-year-old grandmother Helen Foulkes tried to protect the boy but ended up getting bitten by the dog in the process. She had to receive hospital treatment for the injury.\nThe dog itself was shot dead in the front garden of the house where the attack had taken place. The police had said that they did not take further action after receiving a report about dog breeding earlier this year.\nChief Superintendent Steve Ashley from the police force said about the incident: \"In February this year a housing officer rang Merseyside Police to say they had received complaints of dog breeding at the address. At that time the police said it wasn't a police matter and no action was taken by Merseyside Police.\nThat is contrary to our policies and an investigation is now launched into exactly what happened in February.\""}
{"id": "145138", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145138", "title": "Chelsea Clinton engaged to banker Marc Mezvinsky", "text": "Chelsea Clinton, the daughter of Bill Clinton, U.S. President from 1993 to 2001, has announced that she is engaged to her long-term boyfriend. The 29-year-old announced her engagement to Marc Mezvinsky to friends via e-mail. Mezvinsky is the son of Ed and Marjorie Mezvinsky who both served in the United States Congress. \nLast summer false rumours circulated that the couple had already secretly married. Ms. Clinton's mother, Hillary Clinton, was forced to deny those rumors. Ms. Clinton is currently attending Columbia University\u2019s Mailman School of Public Health. "}
{"id": "145141", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145141", "title": "Porfirio Lobo wins Honduran presidential elections", "text": "Porfirio Lobo, a wealthy rancher, has won the presidential election in Honduras, with about 56% of ballots cast, according to results. Election officials say voter turnout was high, in spite of a call by ousted President Manuel Zelaya to boycott the poll. Lobo declared victory after election results showed a broad lead for the candidate from the opposition National Party.\nSpeaking at a rally late Sunday, Lobo told supporters he will work to improve security, create new jobs and restore international ties. Lobo noted that he wants to bring about profound changes that will enable Honduras to return to the place it was four years ago, before Zelaya took office.\n\"The people will never be defeated, they will always go forward. Today they demonstrated to the world another test of their abilities and determination,\" said Lobo at his acceptance speech.\nElection officials said about 62% of voters took part in the vote, which eclipsed turnout figures from the 2005 election. The official numbers contradicted earlier claims from Zelaya, who said his supporters estimated that less than half of registered voters took part.\nThe ousted leader called on voters to boycott the election, saying the de facto government is illegitimate. Zelaya has been living inside the Brazilian embassy as Honduran officials seek to arrest him on charges of abuse of power and treason.\n\"We took a sample at the polls and the rate of abstentions was over 60 per cent in most cases,\" Zelaya commented to the Al Jazeera news agency. \"This means the election had low turnout, which means it did not enjoy the support of the majority of the Honduran people.\""}
{"id": "145142", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145142", "title": "Somali pirates seize Greek-owned tanker", "text": "Somali pirates have seized the Greek-owned \"Maran Centaurus\", an oil tanker with 28 crew members on board, yesterday, according to reports. \nOfficials say the tanker, which can transport more than two million barrels of oil, was sailing from Saudi Arabia to the United States when it was hijacked. A tanker full of oil could be worth millions of dollars, and possibly pose a significant security and environmental threat. Authorities, however, couldn't immediately ascertain how much oil the vessel was carrying. \nThe ship's crew consists of sixteen Filipinos, nine Greeks, two Ukrainians, and one Romanian, the Al Jazeera news agency reports.\nSomali pirates have hijacked dozens of ships over the past two years, demanding and receiving millions of dollars in ransom from the hijacked ships' owners."}
{"id": "145144", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145144", "title": "Article/145138/Chelsea Clinton engaged to banker Marc Mezvinsky", "text": ""}
{"id": "145145", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145145", "title": "Article/145141/Porfirio Lobo wins Honduran presidential elections", "text": ""}
{"id": "145157", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145157", "title": "Wikinews interviews Stephen Murphy about the upcoming by-election in the Higgins electorate of the Australian parliament", "text": "With two by-elections coming up in Australia, many minor parties and independents will be looking to gain a seat in the House of Representatives. Stephen Murphy is one of the independents.\nMr Murphy is a computer programmer from the Melbourne suburb of Brunswick. \n\"After growing up in South-East Melbourne I studied Science at Monash with first class Honours, worked in Europe for 10 years and have recently returned to Australia. I work in finance as a computer programmer and speak five languages,\" Mr Murphy said.\nWikinews reporter held an exclusive email interview with Mr Murphy, candidate for the Division of Higgins.\nInterview.\nWhy do you want to get into parliament?\nStephen Murphy: I am standing up for what I believe is the correct course of action on the biggest issue in Australian politics in 100 years - Kevin Rudd's flawed emissions trading scheme (ETS).\nWhat would the three main policies you are taking into this by-election be?\nSM: I will oppose the emissions trading scheme, ensure that all government policy is based on accurate scientific evidence and return common sense to Canberra\nHow would you address these policies?\nSM: By asking for a Royal Commission into climate change so that the facts (such as that global warming stopped in 2001 and the emissions trading scheme will not change the climate one bit) are openly presented to the Australian people.\nSending asylum seekers to Indonesia: good or bad?\nSM: Any government policy that does not properly consider all implications (be it emissions trading, or any other issue) is a bad one.\nIs the Australian dollar's near parity with the US dollar a sign that the Australian economy is healthy, the US economy in chaos or both?\nSM: It's a sign of both. Many countries around the world look with envy at how well (relatively) Australia is doing, to our credit! It is of concern that the American economy is in such bad shape and that their levels of debt seem unsustainable.\nHow do you rate the governments economic stimulus package?\nSM: The economic stimulus package was poorly targeted and poorly carried out. When we could have been building roads, dams, railways and hospitals yet instead we were paying for tattoos, PlayStations and overseas holidays.\nShould it be wound back?\nSM: The question about levels of stimulus spending is a complicated one and requires expertise in economics, however one could say in general terms that all government spending should be well targeted and spent in the most efficient way.\nIs Kevin Rudd a better Prime Minister than John Howard?'\nSM: Australian voters are the best judge of that and we will know in 2019 :)\nIs the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme an effective solution to climate change? Why?\nSM: Absolutely not. The CPRS will not change the climate by any amount that we can measure - it's just a new tax that will hurt Australians and drive businesses and jobs overseas. Since 2003 there has been mountains of new scientific data which contradicts the popular theory that human carbon dioxide emissions are causing significant global warming. Recently, many of the scientists who wrote the IPCC report (on which the ETS / CPRS is based) have been reported as manipulating scientific data to create scary global warming scenarios. The science is definitely not settled\nIs there a better solution?\nSM: We can very easily refocus the momentum and goodwill that has been generated on climate change and channel this energy into other worthwhile environmental projects in Australia that will make a difference.\nWhy should the electorate vote for you?\nSM: I will oppose the ETS and support responsible environmental policies instead of radical environmental policies that could end up costing every Australian taxpayer $4550 per year in new taxes."}
{"id": "145159", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145159", "title": "Article/145142/Somali pirates seize Greek-owned tanker", "text": ""}
{"id": "145161", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145161", "title": "Article/145130/4-year-old boy killed by dog in Liverpool, England", "text": ""}
{"id": "145180", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145180", "title": "Article/145157/Wikinews interviews Stephen Murphy about the upcoming by-election in the Higgins electorate of the Australian parliament", "text": ""}
{"id": "145185", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145185", "title": "US President Obama delivers address on Afghanistan plan", "text": "Tuesday evening, United States President Barack Obama went to the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, to deliver a televised address to announce his new approach to the War in Afghanistan.\nPresident Obama announced an increase of 30,000 US troops to be sent to Afghanistan. \n\"The 30,000 additional troops that I am announcing tonight will deploy in the first part of 2010 \u2013 the fastest pace possible \u2013 so that they can target the insurgency and secure key population centers. They will increase our ability to train competent Afghan Security Forces, and to partner with them so that more Afghans can get into the fight. And they will help create the conditions for the United States to transfer responsibility to the Afghans,\" said the President.\n\"These additional American and international troops will allow us to accelerate handing over responsibility to Afghan forces, and allow us to begin the transfer of our forces out of Afghanistan in July of 2011.\nObama said that Afghanistan is not another Vietnam War and that the best approach is not to leave. However, he rejected a semi-permanent US presence that exceeds US needs and capabilities.\nHe said the US must be nimble and concise in combating Al-Qaeda wherever it might appear.\nObama said that America has underwritten global security for more than 60 years and that America seeks a better future that can only be achieved if \"other peoples' children can live in freedom.\""}
{"id": "145187", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145187", "title": "Pakistani Member of Parliament killed by suicide bomber", "text": "A Pakistani provincial politician was killed earlier today by a teen-aged suicide bomber in the northwestern Swat valley.\nShamsher Ali Khan, a member of the Awami National Party, was receiving guests at his residence in the town of Kanju, when a young man, armed with explosives. walked into the grounds of the house. He blew himself up, killing Khan and injuring over twelve other people. According to police, two of the victim's brothers were among those hurt. The blast was so strong it damaged portions of the building. \nThe guests were reportedly gathering to celebrate the end of Eid al-Adha, a Muslim holy festival. \"People were coming to exchange Eid greetings with him when a man came and blew himself up,\" said a relative of the MP, Farooq Khan."}
{"id": "145189", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145189", "title": "Article/145185/US President Obama delivers address on Afghanistan plan", "text": ""}
{"id": "145195", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145195", "title": "Religious and political leaders criticise Swiss ban on minarets", "text": "Religious and political leaders from around the world have criticised the ban on building minarets as part of the Swiss referendum held in November.\nLeaders from the Vatican and the Muslim community around the world have deplored the vote as an attack on religious freedom. The Swiss government has also expressed shame at the result, and expects repercussions from Muslim countries with which it does business. Some politicians from other countries, however, defended the ban.\nThe co-president of the European Greens-European Free Alliance in the European Parliament, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, has already called upon Muslims to withdraw their funds from Swiss banks, echoed by warnings from Turkish State Minister Egemen Bagis, chief negotiator in European Union accession talks, who said in an interview with the \"H\u00fcrriyet\" that \"I am certain this [the vote] will prompt our brothers from Muslim countries who keep their money and investments in Swiss banks to review their decision,\" he said.\nFrance's Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said that the ban revealed \"intolerance\" and called for it to be reversed. \"If you are not allowed to build minarets, that means that religion is being oppressed,\" he said.\nReaction from some Muslim leaders was even stronger. \"This is the hatred of Swiss people against Muslim communities. They do not want to see a Muslim presence in their country and this intense dislike has made them intolerant,\" said Maskuri Abdillah, head of Indonesia's largest Muslim group, Nahdlatul Ulama.\nEgypt's Grand Mufti Ali Gomaa called the ban an insult to all Muslims. \"This proposal [\u2026] is not considered just an attack on freedom of beliefs, but also an attempt to insult the feelings of the Muslim community in and outside Switzerland,\" he said\nThe Swiss Government\u2014which had opposed the vote\u2014attempted to reassure Muslims that \"this is not a rejection of the Muslim community, religion or culture,\" with the Conference of Swiss Bishops saying that it \"heightens the problems of cohabitation between religions and cultures.\"\nAmnesty International, along with other rights organisations, stated that the result of the vote meant that religious freedom, as codified in the European Convention on Human Rights, was no longer ensured, and the Swiss Green Party is considering bringing the matter up at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.\nReaction from France and Germany was more nuanced, with the French leading political party's spokesman Xavier Bertrand saying that he was \"not sure that minarets are needed in order to practise Islam in France\", and Germany's Wolfgang Bosbach calling criticism unconstructive; he said that there was fear of Islamisation \"and this fear must be taken seriously.\"\nSome right-wing groups in France, Austria, Italy and the Netherlands called the vote a success of the people against the elite and for other countries to undertake similar steps. France's National Front said that the \"elites should stop denying the aspirations and fears of the European people, who, without opposing religious freedom, reject ostentatious signs that political-religious Muslim groups want to impose,\" with Italy's Northern League adding \"Switzerland is sending us a clear signal: yes to bell towers, no to minarets.\""}
{"id": "145197", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145197", "title": "China-EU financial relations are growing", "text": "Chinese President Hu Jintao met with the European Union's leaders Jose Manuel Barroso and Fredrik Reinfeldt in Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China. The EU leaders were in China to attend Monday's twelfth China-European Union (EU) summit. Barroso said China-EU relations are \"more mature, deeper\" then before. \nChina-EU trading relations have grown over the last 35 years. The volume of trade between the pair reached in 2008, an increase of 19.5% over the prior year. Bilateral relations are far closer now than in previous years. \nSwedish Prime Minister, Fredrik Reinfeldt, said the Lisbon Treaty would help strengthen EU-China relations. Summit attendees also talked about nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament, human rights, climate change, combating financial crisis and financial investments. \nBefore the twelfth China-EU summit, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao met with EU delegates in Nanjing, and the trading partners celebrated the 35th anniversary of diplomatic relations."}
{"id": "145200", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145200", "title": "British sailors detained, released after yacht accidentally crosses into Iranian waters", "text": "Five British sailors traveling in a yacht in the Persian Gulf were detained and released by Iranian authorities after they accidentally crossed into Iranian waters. The sailors were on their way to a race then they suffered propeller problems and drifted into Iranian waters.\nIranian authorities interrogated the sailors and released them after they found no evidence of \"bad intentions.\" They earlier warned that the sailors would face prosecution if they suspected any wrong doing.\n\"[There was] certainly no question of any malicious intent on the part of these five young people,\" stated the Iranian Foreign Ministry to the . The stated, \"after carrying out an investigation and interrogation of the five British sailors, it became clear that their illegal entry was a mistake.\"\nTeam Pindar composed of David Bloomer, Luke Porter, Oliver Smith, Oliver Young and Sam Usher, were travelling to the -Muscat Offshore Sailing Race, a 360-mile (580-kilometer) race when they were arrested on November 25. The race took place on November 26. The sailors were met by team representatives and are being escorted in their yacht out of Iranian waters. \nDavid Miliband, the Foreign Secretary for the UK denies that the unconditional release was not a political move calling it a \"human story\" and that it had \"nothing to do with politics. It's got nothing to do with the nuclear enrichment program.\"\nA similar incident took place in July, but on land. Three American hikers, identified as Shaun Gabriel Maxwell, Shane Bower and Sara Short, were arrested on July 31 in the country after they crossed into Iranian territory. Reports say the hikers accidentally crossed into Iran while hiking between and Ahmad Awa in the Kurdish Region of Iraq."}
{"id": "145209", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145209", "title": "Article/145195/Religious and political leaders criticise Swiss ban on minarets", "text": ""}
{"id": "145212", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145212", "title": "State of the health care system in Sierra Leone critical", "text": "According to M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res the health care system in Sierra Leone causes loss of life because the poor cannot afford medical treatment.\nThe maternal death rate and the child mortality rate in Sierra Leone are the highest in the world.\nExperiences of M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res had shown that free care or low fees lead to a dramatic increase in the number of patients.\nNonetheless the national health system of Sierra Leone demands payment for all treatment with simple consultations costing as much as 25 days of income.\nAccording to Action Against Hunger the number of children with acute malnutrition has reached almost twice the level of the WHO's emergency threshold of 2% in the Moyamba district of Sierra Leone.\nThe Los Angeles Times writes that Sierra Leone, in spite of decades of foreign aid, has not yet increased the standard of living of its people considerably and 60% of the public spending of Sierra Leone come from other governments and nonprofit organizations.\nSince 2002 the country received $1 billion in aid but the infant mortality rate is almost the highest in the world, lower than Angola but higher than Afghanistan. The newspaper further reports that the United Nations state that 1 in 8 Sierra Leonean women die giving birth, as compared to 1 in 4,800 in the United States and that life expectancy in Sierra Leone is merely 41 years while in Bangladesh life expectancy reaches 60 years.\nThe government of Sierra Leone had expressed its intend to abolish user fees for women and children with a new plan for a fairer health care system that was to be revealed on the Sierra Leone Investment and Donor Conference, which was held in London on November 18 and 19.\n\u201cThe Sierra Leone government has publicly stated its commitment to abolish user fees, and the UK government and other donors have promised to help,\u201d said Seco Gerard, advisor at M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res\u2019s analysis and advocacy unit. \u201cWhat is crucial now is that Sierra Leone actually receives the necessary funding and technical assistance to realise this objective. It is time that words are being followed up by concrete action. If not, people who could otherwise be saved will continue to die needlessly every day.\u201d\nThe Telegraph reports that president Bai Koroma was also hoping to secure a significant increase in aid donations with his new health plan.\nWhile Germany declined to support president Bai Koroma\u2019s \"Agenda for Change\" and urged to give more consideration to women's welfare the country received support from the European Union, DFID, UNIPSIL, World Bank, IFAD and the African Development Bank. From the pledges of $850 million the government of Sierra Leone was hoping for only about $300 millions could be secured, with attached conditionalities concerning the use of funding.\nIn a presentation at the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development in Freetown the Unicef representative for Sierra Leone, Mr. Mahimbo Mdoe, expressed gratitude about a pledge of about $1.3 million conveyed by the Ambassador of Japan to Sierra Leone, His Excellency Mr. Keiichi Katakami, and about earlier donations to UNICEF-Sierra Leone in the past years, amounting to over $20 million.\nThe intended application of the funding is the goal to half child and maternal mortality by 2010, to introduce a social health insurance scheme, to improve equipment and to train health professionals."}
{"id": "145216", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145216", "title": "Article/145200/British sailors detained, released after yacht accidentally crosses into Iranian waters", "text": ""}
{"id": "145218", "revid": "180829", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145218", "title": "British actress Maggie Jones dies age 75", "text": "British actress Maggie Jones has died at the age of 75. The actress was best known for playing the role of Blanche Hunt in the British soap opera \"Coronation Street\". She died on Wednesday morning in hospital. Jones played Blanche for 35 years but did not become a main character until 1999. Jones played several different characters on the set of the soap, originally appearing as a police woman in 1961.\nJones was admitted to hospital in October of this year for \"life saving\" surgery. It is still currently unknown what she was admitted for. The script writers for the show had to write her out of storylines. Because the show is written six weeks in advance she appeared up until recently.\nAn ITV spokeswoman released a statement acknowledging the passing of Jones. William Roache, who plays Ken Barlow on the show, said that Jones was a \"brilliant actress\" and had an \"amazing dry wit\". He added: \"I don't think Maggie ever realised how much she was loved \u2014 not only by everyone on the show but by the millions of Blanche fans out there. She will be greatly missed.\""}
{"id": "145219", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145219", "title": "Article/145218/British actress Maggie Jones dies age 75", "text": ""}
{"id": "145222", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145222", "title": "FIFA to make changes after Thierry Henry handball", "text": "FIFA, the world governing body for association football, yesterday announced it was setting up a working group to conduct an inquiry into the introduction of assistant referees and technology into the world game, in the wake of the reactions to the controversial handball committed by French captain Thierry Henry during the 18 November France vs Republic of Ireland qualifying play-off game for the 2010 World Cup.\nYesterday, at the request of FIFA President Sepp Blatter, FIFA held an emergency meeting of its 24 member Executive Committee in Cape Town, to look into various issues which had recently affected the world game, including the Henry handball.\nAfter the meeting, FIFA announced it will set up an inquiry to investigate the introduction of goal line technology and the global experimentation of using additional referee's assistants to officiate during a match, already being trialled in Europe. FIFA did not however take the widely expected action of announcing there would be extra assistants in place for the upcoming 2010 World Cup, stating this was \"too soon\" to be made possible. Blatter also re-iterated his long-standing opposition to the adoption of video refereeing used in many other sports.\nBlatter confirmed yesterday that Thierry Henry would be investigated by the FIFA Disciplinary Committee. Blatter also apologised to the FAI for his handling of their request to become the 33rd team at the 2010 World Cup.\nHenry handball incident.\nThere was a worldwide reaction after the Henry handball incident, which was missed by the referee Martin Hansson, with FIFA coming under pressure to make changes to avoid such a recurrence.\nHenry's illegal handball had led to the decisive goal being scored in the game by William Gallas, which saw France qualify for the World Cup ahead of the Republic of Ireland. The Irish football federation (\"FAI\") first called on FIFA and the French for a replay, but this was rejected by FIFA. They later requested to be allowed to be given an extra place at the World Cup.\nYesterday, Blatter appealed to all players and officials that would be appearing in the upcoming 2010 World Cup to observe the principles of fair play. Henry had been criticised for admitting the handball after the game, but not informing the referee at the time. \nRefereeing working group.\nBlatter said of the crisis in refereeing in the world game that:\nThe committee was of the opinion that we are at a crossroads: where shall we go with refereeing in the future? The game at the highest level is so tense that it is impossible for one referee and his assistants to see everything...The executive committee came to the decision that the referee is not any longer consistent with the quality and the speed of the game, and the interest of television and 32 cameras as we will have in the World Cup\nTo address these issues, FIFA announced they were going to set up a committee of inquiry to \"look at technology or additional persons\". Blatter confirmed the inquiry would involve a cross section of FIFA personnel, involving the referee, football, technical and medical committees.\nOn the subject of assistant referees, FIFA said:\n... the Executive Committee expressed its support for the current experiment of including two additional referees behind the goal lines. However, the committee stressed that it would be too soon to implement this new system at the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa\nBlatter said FIFA was not ignoring the ongoing trials of extra assistant referees, which would continue in the Europa League into the 2010 knock-out stages, but the executive was of the opinion that with these trials only occurring on one continent, any experiment should \"be carried out globally\" before being adopted in a World Cup, and that the six months remaining until the 2010 World Cup starts was too short a time to prove any such system. The 2010 tournament, to be held in June and July, would instead remain with the normal FIFA appointed officiating team consisting of four officials led by the match referee.\nOn the issue of what types of technology might be investigated, Blatter confirmed that two companies looking at goal-line technology were due to report to the rule-making International Football Association Board (IFAB) in March. According to AFP, the meeting also 'ruled out' the adoption of the type of video refereeing as used in rugby, cricket and tennis.', while Blatter stated such a system would 'damage the flow' of the game and \"take away talking points\".\nInvestigation of Henry.\nFIFA confirmed the FIFA Disciplinary Committee would \"examine the case of Thierry Henry related to the play-off match\". Blatter said:\nI have not said that Thierry Henry will be punished, I have said that Thierry Henry will be examined by the disciplinary committee of FIFA\", but he added \"it was a blatant unfair playing and was shown all around the world, but I don't know what the outcome will be, let them make the decision. Fair play must be maintained in our game\nNo timetable was given for when the Disciplinary Committee, headed by Swiss lawyer Marcel Mathier, might make their decision on Henry. According to the Associated Press, the committee has the 'authority to impose a one-match suspension on Henry, which would take effect at the start of the World Cup in June.' According to the BBC, there was no certainty that Henry would even be banned if found guilty.\nApology to the FAI.\nAfter FIFA rejected an Irish request for a replay of the game, the FAI had asked Sepp Blatter to privately raise the issue at the FIFA meeting of whether the Irish could be entered into the 2010 World Cup as a 33rd team. According to the BBC, the FAI 'knew all along that there was very little chance of their request being granted but had decided to make it anyway on principle'. The FAI withdrew it before the meeting, after Blatter made their request public during his opening address of the Soccerex conference in Johannesburg on 29 November. Blatter yesterday apologised to the FAI for how he had handled their request, saying:\nIn this connection I would like to express my regrets - my regrets to a wrong interpretation of what I have said in the Soccerex. I have only announced they have asked it, but the presence in the Soccerex they don't took it very, I would say, seriously. So I regret what I have created and especially towards the Irish Football Association, I am sorry about these headlines going around the world. Contrary I have nothing against the Irish, they were very sporting people when they came to FIFA and it is a pity that it has been now communicated in this way. Sorry again.\""}
{"id": "145224", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145224", "title": "Iran releases five detained Britons", "text": "Iranian authorities have released five British yachtsmen who were detained last week in the Persian Gulf. A statement from Iran's Revolutionary Guards said that, after investigation, it reached the conclusion that their illegal entry was a mistake.\nBritain's Foreign Office confirmed the release, and said the yachtsmen are being towed to international waters, and were expected to head to Dubai, United Arab Emirates.\nIranian naval forces detained the Britons on the 25th of November as they sailed from Bahrain to Dubai for a race. The chair of Sail Bahrain, Andrew Pindar, which owns the yacht, said the vessel \"may have strayed inadvertently\" into Iranian waters due to a problem with its propeller.\nState radio quoted a statement by the Iranian Revolutionary Guards as saying that \"after getting necessary guarantees, Iran released the five. We reached the conclusion that they entered Iran\u2019s territorial waters by mistake.\"\nThe news comes hours after British Foreign Secretary David Miliband spoke to his Iranian counterpart Manouchehr Mottaki by phone and pressed him for clear information on the incident. Miliband denied the sailors had any malicious intent. He said the incident has \"nothing to do\" with politics or Iran's nuclear program."}
{"id": "145230", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145230", "title": "Article/145224/Iran releases five detained Britons", "text": ""}
{"id": "145232", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145232", "title": "UK's oldest museum reopened", "text": "Queen Elizabeth II officially reopened the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford yesterday, after its \u00a361 million redevelopment. The museum, which is run by the University of Oxford and is the oldest museum in the United Kingdom, was closed for a year during the refurbishment. Under the direction of the architect Rick Mather, a further 39 galleries have been added, along with the first rooftop cafe in Oxford. The project, which replaced the whole building apart from the Grade I listed Cockerell building, received a \u00a315 million grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund. The museum reopened its doors on November 7, 2009, in advance of the official ceremony by the Queen. The guests at the reopening included Prince Mohammed bin Nawaf Al-Saud, the Saudi Ambassador to Britain.\nThe Chancellor of the University of Oxford, Lord Patten, greeted the Queen on her arrival. He said \"It is quite literally the most important day in the museum's history since it was founded in 1683. It is a spectacular renovation and transformation of what is really the world's greatest university museum.\" The museum's director, Christopher Brown, said that it was a \"historical moment\" for Oxford. \nThe Queen combined her visit to the museum with celebrations at Brasenose College marking its 500th anniversary. The director of alumni relations and development for Brasenose College, Jennifer Lewis, noted that the founder of the Ashmolean, Elias Ashmole, had been a student at the college, and said that the visit by the Queen to both institutions on the same day was \"particularly fitting\". "}
{"id": "145241", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145241", "title": "Article/145222/FIFA to make changes after Thierry Henry handball", "text": ""}
{"id": "145245", "revid": "1526439", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145245", "title": "Wikinews interviews Goronwy Price about the upcoming by-election in the Bradfield electorate of the Australian parliament", "text": "With two federal by-elections coming up in Australia, many minor parties and independents will be looking to gain a seat in the House of Representatives. Goronwy Price is a candidate representing the Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy party.\nMr Price is an environmentalist, adventurer and businessman from the Sydney suburb of Cremorne. \n\"In 1975 I founded the adventure travel company World Expeditions and built it to be the world's largest adventure organisation. I am currently Managing Director of Learningportal.com a successful software company I founded in 1997. We export software around the world.,\" Mr Price said.\nWikinews reporter Patrick Gillett held an exclusive email interview with Mr Price, candidate for the Division of Bradfield.\nInterview.\nWhat is your background?\nI have spent 30 years involved with business and the environment, and am a proponent of nuclear energy as a major part of a serious attack on climate change.\nI led the first Australian expedition to the North face of Everest and the first rafting decent of the Tsangpo, the world's highest river as well as countless other adventures in the wild and beautiful corners of the world. I helped organise the first Fleet ReEnactment project, highlight of Australia's Bicentennial celebrations.\nIn 1975 I founded the adventure travel company World Expeditions and built it to be the world's largest adventure organisation. I am currently Managing Director of Learningportal.com a successful software company I founded in 1997. We export software around the world.\nWhy do you want to get into parliament?\nI am standing on the single issue of embracing Nuclear Energy as part of the solution to climate change. I would seek to influence public policy to accept this. I believe we have to do two things to combat climate change;\nIt is strange that [L]abour is moving toward point 1 and the liberals seem now to be moving to point 2. We need both.\nWhat would the three main policies you are taking into this by-election be?\nI would like Australia to adopt a policy recently announced in Britain - to build 10 new Nuclear power stations by 2025. If we need this we would reduce our emissions 30%.\nHow would you address these policies?\nPrice carbon so it costs around 5c per Kilowatt hour of electricity instead of 2 cents. This would automatically make nuclear power viable. I would then encourage the building of power stations through rapid approvals. Of course if any renewables could compete at the same price so much the better.\nSending asylum seekers to Indonesia: good or bad?\nI am standing on a single issue. Although of course I have an opinion on this it is not the main issue in 2009 in Australia.\nIs the Australian dollar's near parrity with the US dollar a sign that the Australian economy is healthy, the US economy in chaos or both?\nIn the long term they are both healthy. Economic health comes from scientific advancement and reasonable economic policies. A third factor now needs to be added - environmental policy.\nHow do you rate the governments economic stimulus package?\nPoor. China managed to spend 20% of its stimulous on environment policies, South Korea 20%, US 12% and Australia about 2%.\nShould it be wound back?\nIt should be redirected.\nIs Kevin Rudd a better Prime Minister than John Howard?\nI'll pass on that one as I hope to attract people from both sides of the left right divide\nIs the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme an effective solution to climate change? Why?\nPricing carbon has to be part of the solution. While it could have been much better at least it was a start. I would have voted for it.\nIs there a better solution?\nI would have preferred an immediate carbon tax. However in the longer term the CPRS should achieve the same.\nWhy should the electorate vote for you?\nTo demonstrate they support strong action on climate change. They are welcome to go to www.cfc.org.au for more information."}
{"id": "145250", "revid": "160590", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145250", "title": "American botanist Lou Jost discovers world's smallest orchid", "text": "American botanist Lou Jost, one of the world's leading orchid hunters, has discovered the smallest orchid in the world among the roots of a larger plant in a nature reserve in Bolivia, South America. The 2.1mm wide flowers have transparent petals, which are only one cell thick. The finding tops the previous record of \"Platystele jungermannioides\" with 2.5mm flowers.\nLou Jost discovered the new species accidentally, looking at a bigger plant from the Cerro Candelaria reserve in the eastern Andes. The reserve was created by a British organisation \"World Land Trust\" in partnership with \"Fundacion EcoMinga\", for which the discoverer works. In fact, Ecuador is the place of discovery of more than 1,000 new species of orchids in the past century.\n\"I found it among the roots of another plant that I had collected, another small orchid which I took back to grow in my greenhouse to get it to flower. A few months later I saw that down among the roots was a tiny little plant that I realised was more interesting than the bigger orchid. Looking at the flower is often the best way to be able to identify which species of orchid you've got hold of \u2013 and can tell you whether you're looking at an unknown species or not.\" he said.\nThe finding was identified as belonging to genus \"Platystele\", like the previous record holder, and is the 60th new species of orchid that Dr Jost had discovered in the past decade."}
{"id": "145252", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145252", "title": "Article/145232/UK's oldest museum reopened", "text": ""}
{"id": "145259", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145259", "title": "UK Government to look again at drink-drive limit", "text": "The U.K. Government announced today it has commissioned a report on whether the legal alcohol limit for driving, and whether the laws on driving under the influence of drugs, should be tightened. The report, by Oxford University academic Sir Peter North, should be completed by April for the Secretary of State for Transport, Lord Adonis. Lord Adonis said, \"Drink-driving was involved in 430 road deaths in 2008 and research suggests that drug-driving is also a key concern for the public.\"\nOne option that will be considered is whether to lower the limit from 80 milligrams of alcohol per 100 millilitres of blood to 50 milligrams. This would bring the UK into line with other European countries; a proposal to change the law in Scotland under devolved powers has already been put forward by the Scottish Government. A limit of 50 milligrams would mean that an average person would not be permitted to drive after drinking a standard measure of wine or a pint of beer.\nThe news was applauded by representatives of motoring organisations. The Automobile Association's President, Edmund King, said he was \"pleased that these complex issues will be addressed\". The RAC's spokesman said drug-driving is a \"growing problem\", and lowering the alcohol limit would reduce fatalities. However, the Conservative Party took a different view, with Shadow Transport Secretary, Theresa Villiers, saying they were \"yet to be convinced of the case for an across-the-board reduction in the drink-driving limit\", and, would certainly oppose any suggestion of penalties being reduced.\nSir Peter North, 73, is a former Principal of Jesus College, Oxford and Vice-Chancellor of Oxford University. A former member of the Law Commission, he chaired the Road Traffic Law Review between 1985 and 1988, leading to the Road Traffic Act of 1991. His 1997 report on parades and marches in Northern Ireland led to the foundation of the Parades Commission. Commenting on his task he stated, \"[t]he challenge is to see whether changes in the law and its processes can reduce casualties\", adding that whilst the issues \"are not easy to resolve\", he intended to consult \"widely\"."}
{"id": "145261", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145261", "title": "Article/145245/Wikinews interviews Goronwy Price about the upcoming by-election in the Bradfield electorate of the Australian parliament", "text": ""}
{"id": "145265", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145265", "title": "Article/145259/UK Government to look again at drink-drive limit", "text": ""}
{"id": "145268", "revid": "26321", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145268", "title": "Pakistani prime minister says Osama Bin Laden not in the country", "text": "Yousuf Raza Gilani, the prime minister of Pakistan, has told British prime minister Gordon Brown that Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden is not in the country.\nBrown hailed Pakistan's efforts to \"disrupt the activities of al-Qaeda\", and referred to them as his \"allies\", promising to provide another \u00a350 million to support the operations to stabilise the borders of the nation; announcing this pledge, he said \"This is your fight but it is also Britain's fight.\" Four days ago, he urged Pakistani officials to \"join [Britain] in the major effort\" to find Bin Laden, based on CIA intelligence that placed him in South Waziristan, a region of northwest Pakistan.\nGilani said in a press conference today \"I doubt the information which you are giving is correct because I don't think Osama Bin Laden is in Pakistan.\" He argues that the intelligence provided by the United States is not \"credible or actionable\", and requested \"more clarity\" from the US before he could act on it. He said that Pakistani officials \"are carefully examining\" Barack Obama's new Afghanistan plan, which he announced yesterday, before making a decision on whether or not to support it."}
{"id": "145278", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145278", "title": "At least fifteen killed after suicide bombing in Somali hotel", "text": "A deadly hotel bombing in Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia, has killed at least fifteen people, including three Somali Cabinet ministers, earlier today. Some reports say the death toll could be higher. The blast targeted a university graduation ceremony being attended by a number of government officials.\nThe Shamo Hotel was hosting a graduation ceremony for Banadir University. Eyewitnesses reported that a suicide bomber gained access to the venue dressed as a woman, donning a full abaya and a veil. The attacker was wearing an explosive strapped to his torso, but was not patted down by security.\nThe director of Median Hospital, Ali Yusuf, commented that \"forty people with shrapnel wounds, including students and medical doctors, have been hospitalized today. Six people died at the hospital.\"\nFormer Islamic Courts Union members at the scene identified the bomber, whose head and face had been completely shaven, as a member of al-Shabab, the ultra-conservative Islamist group believed to have links to al-Qaeda.\nSomali Health Minister Qamar Aden Ali, Education Minister Ahmed Abdullahi Waayeel, and Higher Education Minister Ibrahim Hassan Adow were killed in the attack on Hotel. \nAbdulkadir Mohamed Osman, the Somali presidency's director of information, commented on the incident. \"This is a national tragedy for the Somali people. The blast rocked inside the hotel, killing three ministers and wounding another one.\"\nAdow served as the foreign secretary of the insurgent Islamic Courts Union when it took power in 2006. The Somali minister for sports is also reported to be hospitalized and in critical condition. \nMohamed Mohamoud, an attending graduate of the ceremony, said that he personally saw the remains of the health minister on the ground, as well as the corpses of other government officials. \"The situation has dramatically changed from happiness to heartbreak. I am really discouraged for my colleagues. They have been studying in such a horrific environment, and today they passed away without benefiting from their education. May Allah give them his paradise,\" Mohamoud said.\nTwo journalists, a reporter for Radio Shabelle and a cameraman with al-Arabia TV, were also found dead from the explosion. The National Union of Somali Journalists has issued a statement condemning the attack and expressing outrage at the loss of their colleagues. Somalia is one of the world's most dangerous places for journalists to work. Eight have been killed in Somalia since the beginning of 2009.\nHotel Shamo is often chosen by government officials to host events and at one time was a popular lodging option for foreign journalists. Recently-released Canadian journalist Amanda Lindhout and Australian photojournalist Nigel Brennan were staying at the hotel before their capture last year.\nThe hotel security staff say that they were kicked out of the room prior to the ceremony, as government security officials wanted sole handling of the event. The government officials were attending the graduation of 43 students from the local Banadir University. \nThe official death toll from the blast is expected to continue to rise, with some reports indicating that more than 60 people have been found dead. \nThe attack is the latest in a string of incidents linking al-Shabab to common insurgent tactics used by Islamist terrorist groups in other parts of the world. Until recently, suicide bombings were an unusual practice in Somalia.\nIn September, al-Shabab claimed responsibility for a bold attack on a meeting between government officials and the African Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia, known as AMISOM, which killed 17 peacekeepers, including the top Burundian commander. Two vehicles containing explosives were given entry to the AMISOM base and subsequently blew up.\nThe rebel group is battling for control of the war-ravaged nation against the Western-backed Transitional Federal Government, led by former Islamic insurgent Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed. Rebel groups control much of southern and central Somalia, as well as significant portions of Mogadishu.\nThe government is being bolstered by the continuing presence of the peacekeeping force composed of Ugandans and Burundians. The AMISOM forces are mandated with the protection of key city sites such as the airport, seaport, and presidential palace. "}
{"id": "145279", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145279", "title": "Article/145278/At least fifteen killed after suicide bombing in Somali hotel", "text": ""}
{"id": "145281", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145281", "title": "Bin Laden is not in Pakistan, says Pakistani prime minister", "text": ""}
{"id": "145282", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145282", "title": "Pakistani prime minister says Osama bin laden not in the country", "text": ""}
{"id": "145285", "revid": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145285", "title": "Article/145268/Pakistani prime minister says Osama Bin Laden not in the country", "text": ""}
{"id": "145288", "revid": "11752", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145288", "title": "Article/145268/Pakistani prime minister says Osama bin laden not in the country", "text": ""}
{"id": "145289", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145289", "title": "Israel &quot;illegally annexing&quot; east Jerusalem, EU reports", "text": "A classified European Union report for 2009 says Israel is actively pursuing the annexation of east Jerusalem. The report accuses Israel of implementing an intricate policy including expanding Jewish settlements and demolishing Palestinian homes. It says policies \"are undermining prospects for a Palestinian capital in east Jerusalem and incrementally render a sustainable two-state solution unfeasible\"; this is described as, \"an integral part of a broader Israeli strategy.\"\nIsraeli Foreign ministry spokesperson, Yigal Palmor, told AFP that the report was \"dishonest\", \"reflects the Palestinian propaganda\" and \"is based exclusively on Palestinian versions and figures.\" This comes as EU foreign ministers prepare a statement on the Middle East. To allow for US initiatives, EU foreign ministers have not commented on the stalemate between Israel and the Palestinians over past months; but, diplomatic sources say there are \u201csensitivities\u201d over a Swedish proposal to divide Jerusalem in any peace deal.\nCiting official Israeli statistics from the Ministry of Interior executive director of Israel\u2019s HaMoked (Center for the Defence of the Individual) said Wednesday that, \"Israel has stripped Palestinians of Jerusalem residency status last year at a faster rate than at any time in the history of the state\". 4,577 residents of East Jerusalem have had their residence revoked in 2008, this is more than half the total revoked in the past 40 years. The Jerusalem municipality places severe restrictions on issuing building permits for Palestinian houses in east Jerusalem, since 2000 over 600 Palestinian-owned structures have been demolished and Palestinians receive fewer than 200 of the 1,500 building permits needed per year.\nThe 14-page annual report dated November 23 was drafted by European envoys and consuls in Jerusalem and Ramallah and presented to Brussels EU institutions a few days ago. This is the first time the annual report has been made public. Haaretz says, in the past, Israel has pressed the EU not to publish fearing it would undermine the European public's view of Israel. The report was leaked to Israel's Haaretz daily newspaper and obtained by AFP yesterday.\nThe EU report claims the Israeli government and Jerusalem municipality discriminate against Arab residents with regard to building permits, health services, education, sanitation and more. Allegations of assisting private right-wing Jewish organisations, such as Ateret Cohanim and Elad, to alter the city's demographics are included.\nThe report advises sanctions against people and groups involved in \"settlement activity\", and taking other measures to protest Israeli policy and to stop the harming of the Arab population, including an \"EU presence at Israeli court cases on house demolitions or evictions of Palestinian families when there is a risk of demolition or eviction of Palestinian families\", and \"information sharing on violent settlers in East Jerusalem to assess whether to grant entry to the EU.\" The report also recommends implementing measures to strengthen the Palestinian National Authority's presence in the city. \nArchaeological excavations in Jerusalem near the Temple Mount are mentioned, suggesting \"archaeology in this case has become an ideologically motivated tool of national and religious struggle carried out in a manner that modifies the identity and character of the city and threatens to undermine its stability.\""}
{"id": "145291", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145291", "title": "Israel illegally annexing east Jerusalem, EU", "text": ""}
{"id": "145296", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145296", "title": "Article/145250/American botanist Lou Jost discovers world's smallest orchid", "text": ""}
{"id": "145316", "revid": "7186", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145316", "title": "Attack on mosque kills 30 in Rawalpindi, Pakistan", "text": "An attack on a mosque has killed at least 32 people, near Pakistan's military headquarters in the city of Rawalpindi. There have been conflicting accounts of the attack, but police reported gunfire and at least one explosion at the mosque soon after prayers on Friday morning. It is thought that one or more suicide bombers may have been involved.\nThe attack took place at the Parade Lane mosque, in a part of the city containing several defence department buildings. Security workers cordoned off the scene while ambulances rushed to take victims to the hospital. \n\"There was certainly more than one attacker, so there is a possibility that some of them may still be hiding in the vicinity,\" said Athar Abbas, a spokesman for the military.\nIt is the latest in a series of attacks that have rocked Pakistan since the government launched an offensive against al-Qaeda and the in the northwest region bordering Afghanistan. On Thursday, a bomb blast at a police checkpoint wounded at least two policemen in the northwestern city of Peshawar.\nOn Wednesday, a suicide bomber killed two guards and wounded eleven other people at naval headquarters in Pakistan's capital Islamabad. The same day, the military said troops killed fifteen suspected miltants, including a top militant commander, in the , the site of a major offensive earlier this year."}
{"id": "145319", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145319", "title": "Article/145316/Attack on mosque kills 30 in Rawalpindi, Pakistan", "text": ""}
{"id": "145321", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145321", "title": "Article/145197/China-EU financial relations are growing", "text": ""}
{"id": "145324", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145324", "title": "Al-Qaida", "text": ""}
{"id": "145327", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145327", "title": "Israel illegally annexing east Jerusalem, EU report", "text": ""}
{"id": "145340", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145340", "title": "Article/145289/Israel &quot;illegally annexing&quot; east Jerusalem, EU reports", "text": ""}
{"id": "145346", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145346", "title": "Vyacheslav Tikhonov, Russian actor most famous for Stirlitz, dies at 81", "text": "Famous Soviet and Russian actor Vyacheslav Tikhonov died Friday aged 81.\nBorn in 1928, he made his film debut in 1948. The first fame came in 1968, when he featured in Sergei Bondarchuk's Oscar-winning War and Peace as Andrei Bolkonsky and in \"We'll Live Till Monday\" in the leading role of a history school teacher.\nHe is best known for his role of the Soviet spy Standartenf\u00fchrer Stirlitz in the famous 1973 television series Seventeen Moments of Spring, Soviet classics about World War II. Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Cabinet Sergei Ivanov, and the former head of the Foreign Intelligence Service, remarked that, \"this role personified an ideal Soviet spy \u2014 smart, refined, intelligent\".\nHis later roles included the portrayal of a KGB General in the 1984 television series TASS Is Authorized to Declare..., also written by \"Moments\" author Yulian Semyonov, and the role in the award-winning 1994 film Burnt by the Sun.\nRussian state broadcasting company VGTRK recently presented a version of the \"17 Moments\" with restored color. It took approximately US$3,000 to colorize each minute of the film, a $2,520,000 total cost. The television series \"Isayev\" was also released recently by Central Partnership, about the deeds of young Stirlitz, based on the novels by Semyonov. Isayev was played by Daniil Strahov.\nHe was operated on in the Central Clinical Hospital of Moscow last Saturday, but his health remained in a poor condition and he died after a second infarction.\nUnion Of Cinematographists of Russia specifically asked Yuriy Luzhkov, the Moscow mayor, to permit the burial of the People's Artist at Novodevichiye cemetery. The date and place of the funeral will not be decided until Monday.\nHe is survived by second wife Tamara, daughter Anna Tikhonova (also in actoring) and four grandsons. His first wife, Nonna Mordyukova, died last year."}
{"id": "145348", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145348", "title": "Professional wrestler Eddie Fatu dies age 36", "text": "Professional wrestler Eddie Fatu, who wrestled in for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) has died at the age of 36. Fatu died of a heart attack while on life support at a Texas hospital. He is reported to have fallen asleep while watching television at home, his wife found him unresponsive several hours later and rushed him to hospital. \nOriginally from Samoa, Fatu came from the Anoa\u2019i wrestling family and was the cousin of former World Heavyweight wrestling champion Dwayne \u201cThe Rock\u201d Johnson. During his career he worked for several companies. His latest stint was with World Wrestling Federation in which he held their Intercontinental championship. During his time he headlined Wrestlemania, the biggest wrestling event of the year and tried for the heavyweight championship. \nHe was released in June of this year after failing a drug test and refusing to go to rehab. After his release he wrestled in Total Nonstop Action and All Japan.\nHis former employers, WWE released a statement saying \u201cWWE would like to express its deepest condolences to Mr. Fatu\u2019s family, friends and fans on his tragic passing. Mr. Fatu was under contract with WWE at various time periods and most recently performed under the name \"Umaga.\" Mr. Fatu's contract was terminated on June 11, 2009\u201d."}
{"id": "145349", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145349", "title": "Explosion in Russian nightclub kills at least 94", "text": "An explosion yesterday in a Russian nightclub killed at least 94 people and injured a further 139, according to police reports. The incident happened in the \"Lame Horse\" bar in the city of Perm near the Ural mountains.\nAccording to the regional security minister, Igor Orlov, the club's plastic ceiling caught fire, ignited by firecrackers. Security officials, however, commented that the blast could not have been terrorism. \"We are not talking about a terrorist attack, we are talking about a failure to observe fire regulations,\" said an official for an investigative body, as quoted by the ITAR-TASS news agency.\nA reporter for the Al Jazeera news agency remarked: \"Officials have been cited as saying that the incident may have been caused by pyrotechnics that caused an explosion leading to a significant loss of life.\"\n\"The majority of the deaths were the result of burns or gas inhalation. Along with this, there was a crush at the exit,\" said a spokesman for a Russian investigative body, Vladimir Markin, as quoted by RIA Novosti. According to RIA, the emergencies ministry stated that \"the blast went off at 23:15 Moscow time [20:15 UTC].\" "}
{"id": "145350", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145350", "title": "Official results say Namibian president reelected after polls", "text": "Final results from Namibian presidential and parliamentary elections have indicated that the incumbent president, Hifikepunye Pohamba, has been reelected by a large margin. The ruling party, South West Africa People's Organisation (SWAPO), also retained a majority in the parliamentary elections.\nPohamba won 76.4% of the vote in the presidential ballots; meanwhile, SWAPO obtained 75.27% in the parliamentary polls. The Rally for Democracy and Progress (RDP) party came in a distant second at 11.31%. SWAPO won 54 out of 72 seats in the National Assembly. The RDP took eight seats.\n\"I am a happy man. I, on behalf of SWAPO accept the election. I am grateful to the Namibian people who once again trusted me,\" Pohama commented after his reelection.\nEight of the thirteen parties competing with SWAPO said that they rejected the results of the polls, and would challenge them in court \"for contravening the electoral law of the country.\" They claimed that they hadn't been properly informed about the process of vote verification, and that the speed at which the votes were counted was too slow.\nA joint statement released by the parties said that \"our eight parties will not accept the election results as the elections were conducted in contravention of the law. Accepting this supposed elections outcome will be tantamount to undermining democracy in Namibia.\"\nAfrican election observers, however, deemed the Namibian elections free and fair."}
{"id": "145353", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145353", "title": "Final draw sets groups for FIFA World Cup 2010", "text": "The FIFA final draw, which determined team positioning in the 2010 FIFA World Cup, was held Friday in Cape Town, South Africa. The globally televised event, which featured traditional African music and dance, is estimated to have been watched by as many as 200 million people around the world. FIFA Secretary General J\u00e9r\u00f4me Valcke and South African-born actress Charlize Theron announced the random selection of teams for their round-robin tournament style groupings. Also introduced during the ceremony was Adidas' official 2010 Match Ball, Jabulani, a name meaning 'to celebrate' in Zulu.\nThe final group pairings are:\nGroup A: South Africa, Mexico, Uruguay, France\nGroup B: Argentina, Nigeria, Korea Republic, Greece\nGroup C: England, USA, Algeria, Slovenia\nGroup D: Germany, Australia, Serbia, Ghana\nGroup E: Netherlands, Denmark, Japan, Cameroon\nGroup F: Italy, Paraguay, New Zealand, Slovakia\nGroup G: Brazil, Korea DPR, C\u00f4te d'Ivoire, Portugal\nGroup H: Spain, Switzerland, Honduras, Chile"}
{"id": "145356", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145356", "title": "Groups selected in FIFA Wold Cup 2010 Final Draw", "text": ""}
{"id": "145358", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145358", "title": "Article/145353/Final draw sets groups for FIFA World Cup 2010", "text": ""}
{"id": "145373", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145373", "title": "Obama delays arrival to Copenhagen summit by one week", "text": "US president Barack Obama decided to arrive to Copenhagen climate change summit on December 18, contrasting with his previous plan to arrive on December 9.\nObama's Nobel Peace Prize events take place in Oslo around December 1. He decided not to go to Copenhagen before them, delaying his arrival instead.\nThe purpose of the summit is to finalize a treaty to succeed the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. Robert Gibbs, the White House official press secretary, commented, saying that presence of the USA president at later days might encourage more serious results:\n\"The president believes that continued US leadership can be most productive through his participation at the end of the Copenhagen conference on December 18th rather than on December 9th. There are still outstanding issues that must be negotiated for an agreement to be reached, but this decision reflects the president's commitment to doing all that he can to pursue a positive outcome.\"\nDanish Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen welcomed Mr Obama's move, saying that \"President Obama's presence is an expression of the growing political momentum towards sealing an ambitious climate deal in Copenhagen.\"\nGreenpeace International's political climate coordinator Martin Kaiser also talked about the timetable plan change optimistically: \"After a global outcry, President Obama has listened to the people and other world leaders; he has come to his senses and accepted the importance of this potentially historic meeting. Now that he has moved the date, he needs to move his targets and his financial contribution to be in line with what climate science demands.\"\nThe decision of the President came after his talk with Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Nicolas Sarkozy and British Prime Minister Gordon Brown. Some commentators say that the President could have felt the world leaders' optimistic approaches to the December forum, therefore deciding to delay his invigorative arrival to a more critical point."}
{"id": "145374", "revid": "160590", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145374", "title": "Obama Delays arrival to Copenhagen summit by One Week", "text": ""}
{"id": "145380", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145380", "title": "US unemployment rate down to ten percent", "text": "The US Bureau of Labor Statistics reported on Friday that unemployment in the country edged down from 10.2% to 10% in November, with fewer jobs lost in the previous two months than anticipated. The latest monthly figure was discussed at a congressional hearing yesterday as president Barack Obama welcomed the news but said he is still not satisfied.\nAt a hearing of the bipartisan Joint Economic Committee at the Senate, lawmakers from both major US political parties cited the November unemployment figure as welcome progress. However, they also noted the economic pain many of their constituents are still feeling in an economy struggling with deep recession.\nSenator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, said Americans at all levels, but notably the middle class, continue to struggle. \"While parts of our economy are clearly stabilizing, with the Dow Jones over 10,000 again, it is clear that other parts of the economy are still struggling. We need to make sure that all Americans, not just the folks who happen to work on Wall Street, feel that we are digging ourselves out of the hole,\" she commented.\nDespite a generally upward trend in recent months on Wall Street, Obama, administration officials, and economists continue to caution that employment will lag behind other indicators of economic recovery.\nKeith Hall, Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said the November figure, which still represents 15.4 million Americans out of work, is the lowest monthly job loss since the official beginning of the US recession in December 2007, and follows moderating figures in three previous months.\nBut in an economy that has lost jobs for 23 consecutive months, Hall noted that long-term unemployed continued to grow, rising by 293,000 to 5.9 million, with little change in the number of Americans employed part-time but seeking full-time work.\nDemocrat Carolyn Maloney asked him about economist's predictions that it would take 10.7 million jobs created to return the country to full employment. \"Well, without offering an opinion on that 10.7 million jobs, at that rate though, it would be about three years,\" said Mr. Hall.\nOpposition Republicans responded to the latest figures by focusing on specific sectors that continue to lag and renewing their assertions that steps President Obama has taken since he came to office, such as the $787 billion stimulus, have had little impact on the economy.\nKevin Brady is the Republican co-chair of the committee. He said while the November figures are good news, there is not much more to celebrate.\"We can't celebrate a 10 percent unemployment rate, especially when the long-term unemployment continues to grow in very troubling numbers.\"\nBut Maryland Democrat Elijah Cummings noted what he called a major improvement with job losses going from 700,000 per month at the start of the recession to 11,000 in November. \"The report we received this morning is a clear indicator that the economy is slowly returning to growth,\" he said.\nIn an appearance in Allentown, Pennsylvania on Friday, Obama called the jobs figure \"modestly encouraging\", but noted that he will not be satisfied until there is sustained significant improvement. \"We have still got a long way to go. I consider one job loss one job too many and as I said yesterday at a jobs conference in Washington. Good trends don't pay the rent. We have got to actually grow jobs and get America back to work as quickly as we can,\" he said.\nThe president had held a so-called jobs summit at the White House this week seeking support from business and union leaders for his economic recovery efforts.\nRepublicans responded with their own event on Capitol Hill, where economists such as Douglas Holtz Eakin, the former adviser to Senator John McCain who lost the 2008 election to Obama, questioned his approach to recovery. \"Job creation in the United States is something that small businesses, entrepreneurs and the private sector will do but they cannot do it if they are burdened by a legacy of debt and the prospect of higher taxes to pay off that debt and that is the most troubling aspect of the policies this administration is pursuing,\" he said.\nIn testimony to Congress this week, US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke agreed with economists who caution that despite hopeful predictions of moderately strong economic growth unemployment is likely to remain high well into 2010."}
{"id": "145381", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145381", "title": "Guinean junta head in 'stable' condition after shooting, soldiers searching for gunman", "text": "Soldiers in Guinea are searching for the former head of the presidential guard whose men are accused of shooting and wounding the country's military leader, Captain Moussa Dadis Camara. Camara is being treated at a hospital in Morocco, where he is reportedly in \"stable\" condition.\nThe country's security forces are searching for former aide-de-camp Lieutenant Aboubacar Sidiki Diakite, whose men opened fire on military ruler late on Thursday, according to officials.\nThe former aide, who is also known as Toumba, escaped after the assassination attempt and is still at large with a small group of the presidential guard. Toumba has been identified by several witnesses as the man who gave the order to open fire on opposition demonstrators two months ago.\nIn a telephone call, Diakite commented that he was located \"in a safe place\" within Guinea. \"I am in Guinea, I am free to move about,\" he said, as quoted by the Agence France-Presse (AFP) news agency.\nMeanwhile, spokesman Idrissa Cherif said to the AFP that Camara's life was not in danger, and that the wound was not life-threatening. \"He is very well. We have spoken on the telephone, there are no problems and his condition is stable,\" Cherif said, adding that \"the bullet did not penetrate his head but grazed it.\""}
{"id": "145383", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145383", "title": "Obiang reelected as president of Equatorial Guinea after elections", "text": "Official results from Equatorial Guinea have indicated that , the president of the country, has been reelected another term.\nThe election, held on November 29, saw Obiang take 95.37% of the ballot, or 260,462 votes, according to a statement released on the government website yesterday. An opponent, Placido Mico Abogo, finished a distant second, with 3.6% of the vote.\nObiang said that he was going to make human rights, education, and health reforms in his next term. Equatorial Guinea, the third largest producer of oil in Africa, has recently seen increasing levels of infant mortality and less educational enrollment.\nOpposition candidates, however, have claimed that the voting was rigged; some pro-democracy groups also claimed that not enough media attention was devoted to Obiang's rivals. \"In recent weeks it [the government] has stifled and harassed the country's beleaguered political opposition [...] [and] imposed serious constraints on international observers,\" stated the Human Rights Watch."}
{"id": "145384", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145384", "title": "Article/145212/State of the health care system in Sierra Leone critical", "text": ""}
{"id": "145385", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145385", "title": "Article/145348/Professional wrestler Eddie Fatu dies age 36", "text": ""}
{"id": "145387", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145387", "title": "Article/145346/Vyacheslav Tikhonov, Russian actor most famous for Stirlitz, dies at 81", "text": ""}
{"id": "145395", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145395", "title": "First snowfall of the season impacts the Northeast US", "text": "A snowstorm, in many areas the first of the season, has impacted much of the Northeastern United States and Atlantic Canada today and is expected to continue until early on Sunday morning. Cities closer to the coast first received rain this morning and early afternoon, but precipitation has changed over to snow as the low pressure system moves northeastward and gains strength.\nForecasters say the storm is related to the same system that brought record-breaking snowfall to the Houston, Texas region a few days ago. \nMost locations will pick up a few inches of snow when all is said and done, enough to cause widespread travel delays and traffic accidents throughout the area. Accordingly, the National Weather Service has issued several winter weather warnings stretching from the South through Maine. Environment Canada has issued a snowfall warning for Atlantic Canada and is expecting 15 to 30 centimeters of snow.\nBy midday Sunday, the storm will have pulled out of the region, leaving behind clearing skies. \nMeanwhile, a winter storm hit southern Alberta, Canada on Friday causing blizzard like conditions and dumping over 20 centimeters of snow."}
{"id": "145400", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145400", "title": "Three peacekeepers in Sudan killed by gunmen", "text": "According to a spokesman for UNAMID, a peacekeeping force in Darfur, Sudan, three Rwandan soldiers were killed by gunmen in an ambush earlier today. Two other soldiers were hurt.\nThe spokesman, Kemal Saiki, commented that the ambush occurred close to a government checkpoint in the town of Saraf Umra, near Darfur. The peacekeeping troops returned fire at the gunmen, wounding one, but they evaded capture. The identities of the assailants was not immediately known.\nBan Ki-Moon, the United Nations Secretary General, released a statement in which he expressed his sympathy to the families of the killed soldiers.\nWith this incident, twenty peacekeepers have been killed in the Darfur region since January 2008, when the African Union and the UN dispatched armed forces to the region. Violence, however, has become less frequent in the past few months."}
{"id": "145401", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145401", "title": "Article/145349/Explosion in Russian nightclub kills dozens", "text": ""}
{"id": "145403", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145403", "title": "Martial law declared in Philippine province after massacre", "text": "Philippine officials have put a southern province under martial law today, and arrested the patriarch of a powerful clan, following last week's massacre of 57 people. Government officials say President Gloria Arroyo suspended civil rights in the Maguindanao province.\nThis comes soon after the Philippine authorities received reports that some groups were arming themselves to resist arrests by security forces.\nOfficials said that troops took Andal Ampatuan Senior, the local governor, and his son Zaldy Ampatuam, into custody at their home in Maguindanao. Another of Ampatuan's sons, Andal Ampatuan Junior, is already in jail in connection with the massacre. More than 100 soldiers and dozens of police raided homes belonging to the Ampatuan family Friday. The Ampatuan clan has ruled the southern province of Maguindanao for more than a decade.\n\"There are more than 80 people suspected of having participated [...] We need a massive force to assist ordinary police to be able to arrest them. It appears that if martial law [...] is not adapted, the probability of trouble is very high because they will prevent themselves from getting arrested,\" said acting defence secretary Eduardo Armita to the Al Jazeera news agency.\nMartial law has not been imposed anywhere in the Philippines for the last 28 years.\nDuring the November 23 massacre, about a hundred gunmen attacked and slaughtered members of a convoy traveling to register politician Esmael Mangudadatu for governor \u2014 challenging the Ampatuan clan's hold on power. The dead included Mangudadatu's wife, sisters, and supporters. More than half the victims were journalists.\nPresident Arroyo has faced intense pressure to take action against the violence because of her political ties to the Ampatuan clan. She continues to promise justice will be served."}
{"id": "145404", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145404", "title": "Article/145381/Guinean junta head in 'stable' condition after shooting, soldiers searching for gunman", "text": ""}
{"id": "145406", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145406", "title": "Article/145383/Obiang reelected as president of Equatorial Guinea after elections", "text": ""}
{"id": "145408", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145408", "title": "Article/145400/Three peacekeepers in Sudan killed by gunmen", "text": ""}
{"id": "145410", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145410", "title": "Article/145350/Official results say Namibian president reelected after polls", "text": ""}
{"id": "145412", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145412", "title": "Article/145380/US unemployment rate down to ten percent", "text": ""}
{"id": "145413", "revid": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145413", "title": "Explosion in Russian nightclub kills dozens", "text": ""}
{"id": "145415", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145415", "title": "Liberal Party of Australia win Bradfield, Higgins by-elections", "text": "The Liberal Party have retained both the Bradfield and Higgins seats in the Australian House of Representatives, despite some predicting a voter backlash after their recent leadership change and splits over environmental policy.\nThe seats were previously held by former Opposition Leader Brendan Nelson and former Treasurer Peter Costello, respectively.\nHiggins.\nIn Higgins the victorious candidate was Kelly O'Dwyer. Ten candidates contested this by-election, though the governing Labor Party did not field a candidate.\n\"I think it sends a clear message to Kevin Rudd that they cannot take their voters for granted,\" she said. \"Their voters will come to the Liberal Party if given an opportunity.\"\nGreen candidate Dr Clive Hamilton was also happy with the result. \"The Greens have achieved a vote of 35 per cent or so, which is easily the highest vote the Greens have scored in a House of Representatives election,\" Dr Hamilton said. \"That means about a quarter of the voters of Higgins who once voted Labor or Liberal have decided to trust their vote to the Greens.\"\nHamilton told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation that Ms O'Dwyer \"will toe the party line on climate change.\"\n\"I think Kelly O'Dwyer will fit in perfectly well with Tony Abbott's sceptical Liberal party,\" he said. \"I don't think she will really take the climate change message to Higgins, so effectively 35 per cent of her voters are completely disenfranchised on the most important issue that concerns them.\"\nBradfield.\nThe victorious candidate in Bradfield was Paul Fletcher. 22 candidates contested this by-election, again without one from Labor.\n\"My experience as I talked to people during the campaign was that people were concerned about private health insurance, overdevelopment, economic management and so on,\" Fletcher, a former Optus executive, said. \"Climate change came up as an issue, but it wasn't the number one issue. Certainly the Liberal Party needs to have a response on climate change as our leader Tony Abbott has said. But it is not the only issue to campaign on.\""}
{"id": "145416", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145416", "title": "Article/145395/First snowfall of the season impacts the Northeast US", "text": ""}
{"id": "145417", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145417", "title": "Tens of thousands protest in London before Copenhagen climate change summit", "text": "Tens of thousands of demonstrators marched through London earlier today, calling for a deal to be made at this week's Copenhagen Climate Conference in Denmark. Similar such marches were held in Belfast, Dublin, and Glasgow.\nAccording to the London Metropolitan Police, twenty thousand people attended the march. Organisers, however, claimed that about forty thousand people were present at the demonstrations. The march began at Grosvenor Square and continued all the way to the Parliament building on the Thames river.\nThe march contained members of groups such as Oxfam, Greenpeace, Friends of the Earth, and the World Wildlife Fund. Protestors were asked to dress in blue, supposedly to symbolise a \"wave\" of people around the Parliament building.\nThe chief executive of Oxfam, Barbara Stocking, said in a statement that \"the UK government must fight for a comprehensive, fair and binding deal at Copenhagen \u2014 that is our demand today and we expect it to be fulfilled.\n\"They must return home with a strong, effective climate deal both for our own sakes in the U.K. and for the millions of poor people already suffering from the effects of climate change around the world.\""}
{"id": "145419", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145419", "title": "Article/145373/Obama delays arrival to Copenhagen summit by one week", "text": ""}
{"id": "145421", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145421", "title": "Rescuers in Egypt end search for victims of ferry crash", "text": "Egyptian rescue workers have ended a search for possible victims of a collision between two ferries on the Nile River.\nLocal officials said that they found no bodies and have accounted for everyone, after initial reports suggested dozens of passengers and crew members were missing following the collision on Friday. \nRescuers searched on Friday night and early on Saturday for possible victims; officials say at least six people were injured.\nThe two ferries collided near the northern city of Rashid, causing one of the boats to overturn. At least 30 people were on board the boats at the time of the accident. Officials are investigating the cause of the incident."}
{"id": "145422", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145422", "title": "Article/145403/Martial law declared in Philippine province after massacre", "text": ""}
{"id": "145426", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145426", "title": "Article/145417/Tens of thousands protest in London before Copenhagen climate change summit", "text": ""}
{"id": "145428", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145428", "title": "Article/145421/Rescuers in Egypt end search for victims of ferry crash", "text": ""}
{"id": "145431", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145431", "title": "Article/145415/Liberal Party of Australia win Bradfield, Higgins by-elections", "text": ""}
{"id": "145437", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145437", "title": "Western Sahara campaigner still blocked from returning home by Moroccan authorities; on twentieth day of hunger strike", "text": "Moroccan authorities have for the second time refused to allow Western Sahara campaigner Aminatou Haidar, who is on the twentieth day of her hunger strike in Spain, to return home until she apologises for refusing to state her nationality as Moroccan upon receiving a prize.\nAccording to the Moroccan authorities, she voluntarily handed over her passport and would receive a new passport and be pardoned for what senior official Abderraham Leibek called \"an act of treason against her homeland\" on the condition that she apologises. Foreign Minister Taieb Fassi Fihri added that she had \"disowned her identity and her nationality\" and \"must accept, on her own, the legal and moral consequences which result from this behaviour.\"\nThe campaigner for the independence of the disputed territory, which was annexed by Morocco in 1975, attempted to enter the Western Sahara on November 13. Authorities allegedly confiscated her passport before forcing her to return to Lanzarote, where she started her hunger strike three days later.\nThe Spanish government offered either refugee status or citizenship to Haidar and to house her, but she refused as she did not wish to be \"a foreigner in her own home.\" She says that she does not want to remain in Spain, but \"go home to my children and my mother, in Laayoune.\"\nShe accused the Spanish authorities of collusion with Morocco by allowing her into the country, and criticised them for not being able to resolve the situation. She said in a statement issued by her lawyer \"I say once again that Spain is Morocco's accomplice, and both governments want to push me to death. Spain is directly responsible for the consequences of the hunger strike that I have been keeping for 20 days.\"\nSince the annexation of the Western Sahara, Morocco has rejected calls for independence by the Polisario Front movement. Whilst there has been no fighting since 1991 in the region, United Nations-sponsored talks have stalled.\nHaidar is a well-known activist for the disputed territory, having won amongst other awards the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award in 2008."}
{"id": "145438", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145438", "title": "Western Sahara campaigner still blocked from returning to Morocco; on twentieth day of hunger strike", "text": ""}
{"id": "145455", "revid": "177928", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145455", "title": "Article/145437/Western Sahara campaigner still blocked from returning home by Moroccan authorities; on twentieth day of hunger strike", "text": ""}
{"id": "145457", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145457", "title": "Find me all the red balloons; MIT wins DARPA challenge", "text": "A team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) won the challenge to find ten 8-foot (2.4 metre) weather balloons spread across the continental United States, just nine hours after the event's start. In a test of the nation's social networking skills, the US Department of Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) offered US$40,000 (\u20ac26,900) to the first team to identify the location of all ten balloons. The event marks the 40th anniversary of ARPAnet, the precursor to today's Internet, a project developed by DARPA.\nIn a statement announcing the winner, DARPA said \"the Challenge explores basic research issues such as mobilization, collaboration, and trust in diverse social networking constructs and could serve to fuel innovation across a wide spectrum of applications.\" They also stated that they intend to \"meet with teams to review the approaches and strategies used to build networks, collect information, and participate in the Challenge.\"\nThe MIT team offered a reward scheme of its own as an incentive to public cooperation, offering US$2,000 to anyone who gave them the coordinates of a balloon. They also gave to whomever invited the person who gave the correct coordinates to join the challenge. They then gave the person who invited that person US$250, and so on, giving any left over or unclaimed money to charity. The MIT team hoped to \" [...] find out how information spreads on the internet, and how online social networks help this spread\"."}
{"id": "145458", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145458", "title": "MIT wins DARPA challenge", "text": ""}
{"id": "145465", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145465", "title": "Guinean military leader in 'favourable' condition after attempted assassination", "text": "Morocco said earlier today that Guinea's military ruler, Moussa Dadis Camara, has undergone successful surgery for gunshot wounds sustained on Thursday in an apparent assassination attempt. Guinea's military government is offering a reward for the capture of the former head of the presidential guard whose men are accused of carrying out the attack.\nThe inspector of Morocco's Royal Armed Forces' health services said that Camara has had successful surgery for head trauma. In a statement issued by Morocco's official press agency, Dr. Ali Abrouq said Camara's condition is \"not worrying.\"\n\"The current health condition of the Guinean president does not inspire concern,\" Abrouq noted in a statement. \"The result of the operation is favorable.\"\nCamara flew to Morocco on Friday after being shot the day before by men loyal to his former aide-de-camp, Lieutenant Aboubacar Sidiki Diakite, who is also known as Toumba. Toumba escaped the attack, and is still at large with a group of the presidential guard.\nHarouna Kone, a spokesman for the junta, commented that Camara should be able to return to Guinea by Wednesday. \"The president is doing very well and we expecting that he will come back maybe on Wednesday [...] he is in the Royal Hospital of Rabat, and I think that everything is well there. He called last night and [spoke] with his minister of communication and they discussed about something,\u201d he said, as quoted by the Voice of America news agency.\nSecurity forces, meanwhile, are patrolling Guinea's borders in search of Toumba, and the government is offering a reward for information leading to his capture.\nGuinea's vice-president and defense minister, General Sekouba Konate, became the interim leader following the attempted assassination.\nThursday's shooting followed an argument between Toumba and Camara about who should take responsibility for the killing of opposition demonstrators two months ago. Witnesses say Toumba gave the order for the presidential guard to open fire on people protesting Camara's expected presidential candidacy.\nLocal human rights groups said that at least 157 people were killed on September 28; the military put the number at 57 people."}
{"id": "145467", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145467", "title": "Reports say Bolivian president reelected", "text": "Exit polls in Bolivia indicate that President Evo Morales has earned a second term after winning re-election on Sunday.\nBolivian media report that the president gained at least 61%, 35 points ahead of his closest challenger, former governor Manfred Reyes.\n\"This process of change has prevailed,\" Morales said on the balcony of his presidential residence, addressing supporters.\nMorales was first elected in 2005 and is the South American country's first indigenous president. Analysts say the victory means he will likely continue reforms aimed at greater government control over the economy and social spending programs for the poor. \nBolivia's voters also chose a new Congress, with polls showing the president's Movement Toward Socialism party well ahead, securing about two-thirds of the seats. "}
{"id": "145468", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145468", "title": "Gaza Strip reports first swine flu cases", "text": "Health officials in the Gaza Strip confirmed the territory's first five cases of H1N1 swine flu earlier today.\nThe territory's Health Ministry is working with the World Health Organisation (WHO) to obtain the supplies needed to treat the potentially deadly virus.\nNeighbouring Israel has a blockade on Gaza, and Egypt restricts movement across its border with the territory as well. Health officials say that isolation likely kept the H1N1 virus from affecting Gaza sooner.\nMahmoud Daher, a senior official for the WHO, said that Gaza has around 1,000 vaccine doses for the 8,000 medical workers in the territory. West Bank Health Ministry official Asad Ramlawi, however, commented that an additional one million doses would be delivered to the area at the end of the year."}
{"id": "145470", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145470", "title": "Two more UN peacekeepers killed after attack in Darfur", "text": "Gunmen killed two United Nations peacekeepers in Sudan's Darfur region on Saturday, one day after three others were killed in the same area.\nA spokesman for the UNAMID peacekeeping mission in Darfur, Kemal Saiki, said two Rwandan peacekeepers were killed at a refugee camp in the northern part of the city. Saiki said the soldiers were distributing water in the Shangil Tobaya settlement, when at least one gunman opened fire on them. He added that it is currently unclear who carried out the attack and why.\n\"Some men in the crowd were hiding guns in their robes [\u2026] They opened fire without warning. Two of the peacekeepers were killed on the spot,\" said Saiki. One other soldier was injured.\nOn Friday, gunmen ambushed peacekeepers in Darfur's northern town of Saraf Omra, killing three Rwandan soldiers. Saiki said the gunmen targeted a UN convoy and suggested the attackers may have been trying to steal their vehicles. Saiki said that it is not yet clear whether or not the two incidents are linked.\nSaturday's killings bring the total number of peacekeepers killed in the region to 22 since January of 2008 when the UN and African Union began a joint peacekeeping mission in Darfur.\nLarge scale fighting has subsided in Darfur in recent times, but thefts continue to be a problem, along with violence linked to rival tribes and splinter rebel groups."}
{"id": "145481", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145481", "title": "Article/145470/Two more UN peacekeepers killed after attack in Darfur", "text": ""}
{"id": "145486", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145486", "title": "Copenhagen climate conference opens", "text": "The United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP15) has opened on Monday with calls for urgent action to curb climate change and global warming. The largest climate conference in history at the Bella Center in Copenhagen, Denmark is running for two-weeks from December 7 until December 18. Around 15,000 delegates including representatives from the private sector, environmental organizations, research institutions and government officials, as well as 110 heads of state and government from 192 countries, will attend. \nThe \"COP15 Cultural Opening Ceremony\" played a four-minute long film called \"Please help the world\" by the Danish director Mikkel Blaabjerg Poulsen to highlight the danger of rising temperatures. The film depicts a young girl\u2019s screaming nightmare about an eco-apocalypse with global warming, desert wastelands and terrifying floods. As the girl wakes from the nightmare she and other children implores us to 'Please help the world'. Poulsen said, \u201cWe have made a film which speaks to the heart rather than to the brain\u201d. There was also music from a trumpeter, a harpist and the Danish National Girls Choir. \nThe UN climate change conference, the climax of two years of contentious negotiations, opened in an atmosphere of hope. There was an upbeat mood for a deal to be reached within the next two weeks. At a press briefing, Connie Hedegaard, the president of the conference, said that \u201cthe deadline is working\u201d, but \u201cwithin the time we have, we must solve the task\u201d. Lars Lokke Rasmussen stressed, however, that the talks will have to overcome the deep distrust between rich and poor nations on how to share the burden of curbing emissions. There has been a series of promises by rich and emerging economies to curb their greenhouse gases, but there are major issues yet to be resolved. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said that a legally binding treaty on climate change will be reached in 2010. \nThe European Union has adopted a commitment to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020 compared to 1990 levels but the union will raise its commitments to 30% if other major players undertake \u201ccomparable commitments\u201d. News that the United States Environmental Protection Agency ruled that greenhouse gases endanger human health may allow reductions of U.S greenhouse gas emissions. Quoting an unnamed diplomatic source, the Financial Times Deutschland has said the EU is to provide \u201c1-3 billion euro\u201d in aid to developing countries over the next three years so they can fight the effects of climate change and allow climate change mitigation and adaptation.\nThe conference was accused of environmental hypocrisy for its substantial carbon footprint, including its extensive use of private jets and limousines. To reduce the conference's environmental and climate impact, the Danish government will not give gifts to participants. The money will be spent on climate scholarships called \"COP15 Climate Scholarships\", allowing 10-12 candidates to carry out 2-year climate related master\u2019s programmes at Danish universities. Thousands of people are outside the conference building including groups such as Climate Justice Action, Friends of the Earth, Camp for Climate Action, 350.org and Greenpeace calling for urgent action. The environmental group Friends of the Earth condemned what it called \u201cundemocratic practices adopted by the Danish presidency of convening small and exclusive groups of countries before the Copenhagen meeting\u201d. A draft negotiating text has been publicly released, but it is rumored that there is an \u201calternate\u201d treaty document being developed by some large countries in the negotiations, including conference organizers. \nAccording to the Bali Road Map, the 15th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP15) and the 5th Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (COP/MOP5) must agree to a framework for climate change mitigation beyond 2012. Heads of states and governments of 110 countries have announced that they will come to Copenhagen before the 18th of December in an attempt to seal a political global climate deal. If a deal is reached, the UN will aim at transforming it into a legally binding text to replace the Kyoto Protocol, as its regulations of emissions expire in 2012."}
{"id": "145490", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145490", "title": "Copenhagen meeting opens", "text": ""}
{"id": "145494", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145494", "title": "Article/145467/Reports say Bolivian president reelected", "text": ""}
{"id": "145497", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145497", "title": "Article/145468/Gaza Strip reports first swine flu cases", "text": ""}
{"id": "145507", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145507", "title": "Queensland braces for category 5 cyclone", "text": ""}
{"id": "145509", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145509", "title": "Cyclone Glenda intensifies to category 5 storm", "text": ""}
{"id": "145514", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145514", "title": "Iraqi parliament approves election law", "text": "Iraqi lawmakers passed a law on Sunday needed to conduct parliamentary elections early next year, in a nearly unanimous vote. The new law expands parliament from the current 275 seats to 325 seats.\nThe bill took shape during several months of intense debate over how much parliamentary representation should be given to Iraq's minority groups.\n\"The seats of the new Parliament will be 310 seats plus fifteen seats for the minorities, making a total of 325,\" said the deputy parliament speaker.\nIraqi Vice President Tariq al-Hashemi said the law resolves his objections. He had earlier demanded revisions to give his Sunni minority group a greater political voice, and vetoed an earlier version of the law that did not meet this condition."}
{"id": "145517", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145517", "title": "MIT wins DARPA challenge to locate ballons", "text": ""}
{"id": "145518", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145518", "title": "Article/145457/Find me all the red balloons; MIT wins DARPA challenge", "text": ""}
{"id": "145520", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145520", "title": "Find me all the big balloons; MIT wins DARPA challenge", "text": ""}
{"id": "145523", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145523", "title": "Walt Disney World twinned with Swindon, England", "text": "Swindon, England, has an unusual new twin town: Walt Disney World in Florida. The Wiltshire town beat 24 others in a competition to become the first ever to be twinned with the famous resort.\nRebecca Warren, a local building society worker, created a poem and video praising Swindon which won over the judges. Among other features she highlighted the town's well-known Magic Roundabout, a complicated junction composed of five interlinked mini-roundabouts, comparing it to Disney World's teacup rides.\nA sign marking the twinning is planned for the roundabout. Ms. Warren will travel to Florida with her eleven-year-old nephew and five-year-old niece to unveil a similar sign at the resort. A celebration will be held in Swindon in January, and it will also be the focus of an exhibit at Walt Disney World's Epcot park.\n\"Britain clearly has a love for Walt Disney World and long-standing affinity with the parks and their magic, which is probably why the number and quality of entries received was so high,\" said Disney's Hugh Wood. Other towns shortlisted in the competition included Aberdeen, Blackpool, Milton Keynes, and Cambridge."}
{"id": "145525", "revid": "5714", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145525", "title": "Article/145514/Iraqi parliament approves election law", "text": ""}
{"id": "145527", "revid": "5762", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145527", "title": "Article/145465/Guinean military leader in 'favourable' condition after attempted assasination", "text": ""}
{"id": "145538", "revid": "177928", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145538", "title": "Article/145523/Walt Disney World twinned with Swindon, England", "text": ""}
{"id": "145540", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145540", "title": "Uganda introduces anti-homosexual legislation", "text": "On October 14, Uganda introduced legislation that would outlaw and ban homosexuality in the nation. If politicians pass legislation, homosexuals would be forced to leave the country, or be imprisoned for life. Some human rights groups say the law would also allow authorities to kill homosexuals.\n\"This inflammatory bill will be taken as further confirmation that it is OK to attack or even kill people perceived to be lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender,\" said spokesman for the International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission, Victor Mukasa on October 15. The organization is calling on Uganda's government to \"immediately withdraw this dangerous proposal.\"\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, the current law allows authorities to imprison suspected homosexuals and AIDS patients for up to 14 years. The new legislation would make the prison term a life sentence. The practice of \"aggravated homosexuality\" would allow the authorities to sentence homosexuals to death. Members of the public would be required to report acts of homosexuality within 24 hours of witnessing the act. If they fail to do so, they would also be imprisoned for a minimum of three years. The bill also states that the nation would be prepared to cut ties with other countries and stop any commitments they have with them to allow the new laws to be enforced.\n\"We used to say Mr and Mrs, but now it is Mr and Mr. What is that now? We believe there are limits to human rights,\" said minister of state for ethics and integrity in Uganda, James Nsaba Buturo, who supports the legislation, in an interview with The Guardian on November 29. He said that politicians are \"determined\" to have the law go into effect before the end of the year.\nSexual Minorities Uganda chairman Frank Mugisha also said on November 29, that if legislation \"passes we [homosexuals] will have to leave the country.\"\nToday, leaders with the Episcopal Church also spoke out against the proposed legislation. Leaders expressed \"profound dismay\" in a statement made by the Church on Monday.\n\"Our Christian faith recognizes violence, harassment and unjust treatment of any human being as a betrayal of Jesus' commandment to love our neighbors as ourselves. As followers of the teachings of Christ, we must express profound dismay at a bill currently before the Parliament in Uganda,\" said the statement.\nMany other organizations have signed letters or statements calling for the legislation to be withdrawn. They include The World AIDS Campaign, Unitarian Universalist Church United Nations Office and Amnesty International."}
{"id": "145543", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145543", "title": "School stampede in China kills eight, injures dozens more", "text": "State media reported earlier today that a stampede in a school in China has killed at least eight people and injured an additional 26.\nThe accident occurred at 21:10 local time at the Yucai Middle School, a privately-run institution in city of Xiangxiang, located in the Hunan Province. Reports say that several students were leaving their studies when one fell down a staircase, causing others to lose their balance and tumble down as well.\nThose hurt in the incident were treated at three hospitals in the town, and eight other students were being observed by medical personnel despite appearing not to have been hurt.\nChinese officials are investigating the incident and have been questioning the city educational bureau and local school authorities, according to the Xinhua news agency."}
{"id": "145546", "revid": "7186", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145546", "title": "Bomb blasts in Pakistan kill fifty", "text": "Bombings in two Pakistani cities killed about 50 people and wounded more than 140 others on Monday, according to authorities.\nAuthorities in the northeastern city of Lahore, the capital of the Punjab province, stated that twin bombings devastated a busy market crowded with women and children, killing some 40 people. They say more than 100 people were wounded in the two explosions that occurred about 30 seconds apart. The detonation started a fire, which spread quickly due to the many wooden stalls in the market.\nHours earlier, a suicide bomber killed ten people and wounded more than 40 others in Peshawar, the capital of Northwest Frontier Province that has been repeatedly hit by bombings in recent months. Local authorities say the bomber blew himself up as he was stopped by security guards outside a courthouse.\nThere have been no claims of responsibility for any of the attacks."}
{"id": "145550", "revid": "177928", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145550", "title": "Article/145486/Copenhagen climate conference opens", "text": ""}
{"id": "145551", "revid": "177928", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145551", "title": "Article/145543/School stampede in China kills eight, injures dozens more", "text": ""}
{"id": "145553", "revid": "104717", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145553", "title": "Guinean military leader in 'favourable' condition after attempted assasination", "text": ""}
{"id": "145561", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145561", "title": "Article/145546/Bomb blasts in Pakistan kill fifty", "text": ""}
{"id": "145563", "revid": "17538", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145563", "title": "Article/145540/Uganda introduces anti-homosexual legislation", "text": ""}
{"id": "145565", "revid": "206860", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145565", "title": "Bombings kill over 100 in Baghdad", "text": "Iraqi police say a series of car bombings across the capital, Baghdad, killed at least 127 people, wounding hundreds of others.\nReports say three of today's blasts were coordinated. The first occurred at 10:25 local time (07:25 GMT), the others following within minutes. One of the bombs targeted the busy Shourja Market in central Baghdad, near to the Iraqi health ministry. The others were detonated near the Interior Ministry in eastern Baghdad and the Labor Ministry.\nPolice say that earlier, a suicide car bomber struck a police patrol in Dora, southern Baghdad, killing three policemen and twelve students at a local college. Another explosion in central Baghdad has also been reported.\nThe attacks come just two days after the Iraqi parliament passed a law vital for elections to be held early next year. Mowaffaq al-Rubaie, a former Iraqi security adviser, blamed al-Qaeda, saying they have been active in Baghdad recently and are trying to destabilize the government before elections.\n\"The aim is to show the government is unable to protect civilian[s] and its own people and also to deter people from going to ballot boxes,\" al-Rubaie said.\nTuesday's attacks were the worst in the Iraqi capital since late October when twin bomb attacks outside municipal offices killed at least 155 people."}
{"id": "145567", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145567", "title": "Article/145565/Bombings kill over 100 in Baghdad", "text": ""}
{"id": "145570", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145570", "title": "Payment pending; Canadian recording industry set for six billion penalties?", "text": "__NOEDITSECTION__\nA report published last week in the \"Toronto Star\" by Professor Michael Geist of Canada's University of Ottawa claims a copyright case under the Class Proceedings Act of 1992 may see the country's largest players in the music industry facing upwards of billion in penalties.\nThe case is being led by the family and estate of the late jazz musician Chet Baker; moving to take legal action against four major labels in the country, and their parent companies. The dispute centres around unpaid royalties and licensing fees for use of Baker's music, and hundreds of thousands of other works. The suit was initially filed in August last year, but amended and reissued on October 6, two months later. At that point both the Canadian Musical Reproduction Rights Agency (CMRRA) and Society for Reproduction Rights of Authors (SODRAC) were also named defendants.\nFor publishers, performers, and rightsholders.\nJanuary this year SODRAC and CMRRA switch sides, joining Baker et al. as plaintiffs against Sony BMG Music, EMI Music Canada, Universal Music Canada and Warner Music Canada. David A. Basskin, President and CEO of CMRRA, with a professional law background, stated in a sworn affidavit that his organisation made numerous attempts over the last 20 years to reduce what is known as the \"pending list\", a list of works not correctly licensed for reproduction; a list of copyright infringements in the eyes of the Baker legal team.\nThe theoretical principle of the list is to allow timely commercial release while rights and apportionment of monies due are resolved. Basskin complains that it is \"economically infeasible to implement the systems that would be needed to resolve the issues internally\". And, \"[...] for their part, the record labels have generally been unwilling to take the steps that, in the view of CMRRA, would help to resolve the problem.\"\nThe Baker action demands that the four named major labels pay for and submit to an independent audit of their books, \"including the contents of the 'Pending Lists'\". Seeking an assessment of gains made by the record companies in \"failure or refusal to compensate the class members for their musical works\", additional demands are for either damages and profits per the law applicable in a class action, or statutory damages per the Copyright Act for copyright infringement.\nThis forms the basis for Professor Geist's six billion dollar calculation along with Basskin's sworn testimony that the pending lists cover over 300,000 items; with each item counted as an infringement, the minimum statutory damages per case are CA$500, the maximum $20,000.\nCMRRA.\nBasskin's affidavit on behalf of CMRRA goes into detail on the history leading up to the current situation and class action lawsuit; a previous compulsory license scheme, with poor recordkeeping requirements, and which, had a decline in real terms to one of the lowest fees in the world, was eventually abolished and the mechanical license system introduced. The CMRRA went on to become a significant representative of music publishers and copyright holders, and the pending list an instrument to deal with situations where mechanical rights were as-yet not completely negotiated. Basskin's affidavit claiming the list grew and circumstances worsened as time progressed.\nThe Mechanical Licensing Agreement (MLA) between the \"majors'\" industry body, an attached exhibit to the affidavit, is set to expire December 31, 2012; this is between CMRRA and the Canadian Recording Industry Association (CRIA). With the original MLA expiring at end September 1990, CMRRA negotiated more detailed terms and a \"code of conduct\". Subsequent agreements were drawn up in 1998, 2004, 2006, and 2008.\nBasskin asserts that the named record company defendants are the \"major\" labels in Canada and states they \"are also responsible for creating, maintaining and administering the so-called \"Pending Lists\" that are the subject of the current litigation\"; that, specific to publishing, divisions of the four represent the \"'major' music publishers active in Canada\". Yet the number of music publishers they represent has decreased over time due to consolidation and defection from the CRIA.\nGeist summarizes the record company strategy as \"exploit now, pay later if at all\". This despite the CMRRA and SODRAC being required to give lists of all collections they represented to record labels, and for record labels to supply copies of material being released to permit assessment of content that either group may represent interested parties for. Where actual Mechanical License Agreements are in place, Basskin implies their terms are particularly broad and preclude any party exercising their legal right to decline to license.\nSpecific to the current Mechanical Licensing Agreement (MLA) between the CMRRA and the CRIA; a \"label is required to provide an updated cumulative Pending List to CMRRA with each quarterly payment of royalties under the MLA.\" The CMRRA is required to review the list and collect where appropriate royalties and interest due. Basskin describes his first encounter with pending lists, having never heard of them before 1989, thus:\nSODRAC.\nAlain Lauzon, General Manager of Canada's Society for Reproduction Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers (SODRAC) submitted his followup affidavit January 28, 2009 to be attached to the case and identify the society as a plaintiff. As such, he up-front states \"I have knowledge of the matters set out herein.\" Lauzon, a qualified Chartered Accountant with an IT specialisation, joined SODRAC in 2002 with \"over 20 years of business experience.\" He is responsible for \"negotiation and administration of industry-wide agreements for the licensing of music reproduction and distribution\"; licensing of radio and online music services use is within his remit.\nLauzon makes it clear that Baker's estate, other rightsholders enjoined to the case, SODRAC, and CMRRA, have reached an agreed settlement; they wish to move forward with a class proceeding against the four main members of the CRIA. He requests that the court recognise this in relation to the initially accepted case from August 2008.\nThe preamble of the affidavit continues to express strong agreement with that of David Basskin from CMRRA. Lauzon concurs regarding growing use of \"pending lists\" and that \"[...] record labels have generally been unwilling to take the steps that would help to resolve the Pending List problem.\"\nWith his background as an authority, Lauzon states with confidence that SODRAC represents \"approximately 10 to 15% of all musical works that are reproduced on sound recordings sold in Canada.\" For Quebec the figure is more than 50%.\nLauzon agrees that the four named record company defendants are the \"major\" labels in Canada, and that smaller independent labels will usually work with them or an independent distribution company; and Basskin's statement that \"[t]he responsibility to obtain mechanical licenses for recordings manufactured and/or released in Canada falls with the Canadian labels by law, by industry custom, and by contractual agreement.\"\nThe industry's side: lobbyists?\n\"Wikinews\" attempted to contact people at the four named defendant CRIA-member record labels. The recipient of an email that \"Wikinews\" sent to Warner Brothers Canada forwarded our initial correspondence to Hogarth PR; the other three majors failed to respond in a timely fashion. Don Hogarth responded to Wikinewsie Brian McNeil, and, without addressing any of the submitted questions, recommended a blog entry by Barry Sookman as, what he claimed is, a more accurate representation of the facts of the case.\nSookman is a lobbyist at the Canadian Parliament who works in the employ of the the Canadian Recording Industry Association (CRIA). Hogarth gave no indication or disclosure of this; his direction to the blog is to a posting with numerous factual inaccuracies, misdirecting statements, or possibly even lies; if not lies, Sookman is undoubtedly not careful or \"very qualified\" in the way he speaks on the issue.\nSookman's blog post opens with a blast at Professor Geist: \"his attacks use exaggeration, misleading information and half truths to achieve his obvious ends\". Sookman attempts to dismiss any newsworthiness in Geist's article;\nAs the extracted stamp, date, and signature, shows, the court accepted amendments to the case and its submission, as Professor Geist asserts, on October 6. The previously mentioned submissions by the heads of CMRRA and SODRAC were indeed actions within the past year; that of SODRAC's Alain Louzon being January 28 this year.\nSookman continues his attack on Professor Geist, omitting that the reverse appears the case; analysis of his blog's sitemap reveals he wrote a 44-page attack on Professor Geist in February 2008, accusing him of manipulating the media and using influence on Facebook to oppose copyright reform favourable to the CRIA. In the more current post he states:\nThis characterisation of the pending list only matches court records in that it \"has been around for decades\". CMRRA's Basskin, a lawyer and industry insider, goes into great detail on the major labels resisting twenty years of collective societies fighting, and failing, to negotiate a situation where the labels take adequate measures to mechanically license works and pay due fees, royalties, and accrued interest.\nComparison of increasing pending list value quarter on quarter.\nWhat Sookman clearly overlooks is that, without factoring in any interest amounts, the dollar value of the pending list is increasing, as shown with the following two tables for mid-2008.\n&lt;br style=\"clear:both;\"&gt;\nAs is clear, there is an increase of C$1,101,987.83 in a three-month period. Should this rate of increase in the value of the pending list continue and Sony's unvalued pending list be factored in, the CRIA's four major labels will have an outstanding debt of at least C$73 million by end-2012 when the association's Mechanical Licensing Agreement runs out."}
{"id": "145580", "revid": "57490", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145580", "title": "Article/140394/Pakistani Member of Parliament killed by suicide bomber", "text": ""}
{"id": "145581", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145581", "title": "COP15, Alternative &quot;texts&quot; divide climate summit", "text": ""}
{"id": "145589", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145589", "title": "COP15, Leaked alternative text at climate summit", "text": ""}
{"id": "145597", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145597", "title": "Brown, Coakley win Massachusetts Senate seat primaries amid low voter turnout", "text": "Massachusetts and who represents the Norfolk, Bristol &amp; Middlesex District have won their parties' respective primaries amid low voter turnout to of the late who died after losing his battle with brain cancer last August.\nCoakley won out by 47 percent over three other candidates, who included Representative who represents ; , the co-founder and former CEO of , a national youth service organization which was founded in Boston; and , a managing director of private equity firm and managing partner of the basketball team.\nCoakley went into the campaign with a large lead, announcing her candidacy just days after Kennedy's death. Her status as Attorney General has helped her name recognition as she was the only candidate with statewide name recognition. Capuano is less known due to the fact his name only appears on the ballot in the communities he serves as part of the 8th congressional district. \nBrown, the State Senator for the Norfolk, Bristol &amp; Middlesex District and an officer in the , won by a landslide with 89 percent over , an attorney and businessman who ran against Ted Kennedy as the Republican nominee in the along seeking two other offices.\nVoter turnout was low, mostly because of the timing of the primary, which is just a month after voters went to the polls in November to vote in local elections, combined with the cold temperatures as winter finally arrived in Massachusetts this past week with the first snow occurring on Saturday.\n said that he expected turnout to be \"very light\" with 500,000 to 900,000 voters out of Massachusetts 4.1 million registered voters participating. He added that the turnout would be much closer to \"to the 5 than to the 9.\" Galvin further noted that turnout would mostly consist of Democrat and Republican voters and not independents noting that, \"My instinct is that the independents are not participating.\"\nCapuano's campaign hoped that low turnout would help him due to the large number of voters in the Boston area where Capuano is widely known and liked due to his representation of the area plus his past as of , Massachusetts.\n\"Wikinews\" reporter Patrick Mannion noted that turnout was low at his local polling place, with no campaigners outside holding signs and only 155 votes recorded on the machine for his precinct.\nThe Democrat candidates gave their concessions to Coakley, with Capunao noting, \"I want to congratulate the next senator of Massachusetts, Martha Coakley. She ran a good campaign and it was a good clean campaign. I want to be there to make her the next senator.\" Pagliuca said, \"We've really got to reverse this problem of unemployment and I'll work with the nominee to get that done.\" He said of Coakley, \"She'll be a strong, progressive leader for our state.\"\nKhazei addressed his supporters saying, \"We all came into this campaign knowing the climb was steep, the calendar short and the odds long, but you were so committed to the idea that citizens matter and can make a difference that you sacrificed and worked and, boy, did you work, and you brought pride to the campaign and the Commonwealth.\"\nBrown repeatedly noted that voters have a choice in the overwhelmingly Democratic state saying, \"Send another partisan placeholder to the United States Senate or we can try something new, we can elect an independent voice for all of Massachusetts \u2014 and that's the US senator I promise to be.\" Brown also appealed to independents noting, \"Never underestimate the independent spirit of Massachusetts. A year has passed since one-party rule came to Washington and the last thing we need is more of it.\" Brown closed by stating, \"I believe in limited government and the boundless power of the free market to create jobs and wealth for our people.\"\nBrown and Coakley will now face each other along with independent candidate Joseph Kennedy, who has no relation to the late Senator or his family, in the special election which will be held on January 19, 2010.\nThe winner will take over the Senate seat once held by Ted Kennedy himself along with former Presidents and the brother of Ted Kennedy, . Other notable past Senators include , , , and his son The winner will replace , a longtime friend of Senator Kennedy who is currently holding the seat as a interim appointee."}
{"id": "145602", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145602", "title": "Brown, Coakley win Massachusetts primaries amid low voter turnout", "text": ""}
{"id": "145608", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145608", "title": "Hubble telescope spots oldest galaxies ever seen", "text": "American and European scientists say the upgraded Hubble space telescope has spotted the oldest galaxies ever seen. The images were taken with the telescope's new Wide Field Camera 3 (WFC3) in August this year.\nThe galaxies are about 13 billion light years from Earth, meaning they formed less than one billion years after the Big Bang \u2014 the cosmological model of the initial conditions and subsequent development of the universe.\nWFC3 was installed in May this year, during a mission by the space shuttle \"Atlantis\" to repair and upgrade Hubble. Experts say the new instrument will let them peer even further back in time, to when the universe was in its infancy. The more distant a galaxy is, the more its light is \"redshifted\" due to expansion of the universe. Light from the furthest galaxies is shifted to infrared wavelengths invisible to the human eye, but WFC3 can detect these.\nThe new image was taken in August, in the same region as a 2004 visible light image known as the Hubble Ultra Deep Field. The 2004 photo previously showed the most distant galaxies, but the new infrared pictures from the WFC3 allow even more remote galaxies to be seen.\nCapturing the image took four days, and the total exposure lasted 173,000 seconds. In the three months since, twelve scientific papers have been submitted on it. On Tuesday one of these confirmed the galaxies as the furthest ever seen.\nThey are also the oldest, with the light from them having taken around 13 billion years to reach Earth. \n\"At these distances, you're really looking back in time, like you have a time machine,\" said Ray Villard, of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore. \"Those things don't exist anymore.\"\nThe photo could be one of the ultimate achievements of the Hubble telescope, now almost twenty years old. \n\"These new observations are likely to be the most sensitive images Hubble will ever take,\" said Professor Jim Dunlop of the University of Edinburgh.\nThe servicing mission in May extended the telescope's life by around five years, but it is scheduled to be replaced by the James Webb Space Telescope in 2014. This will use infrared imaging and have a greater collecting area than Hubble, and it is thought that it may be able make out objects from just 100 million years after the Big Bang.\n\"We've really pushed Hubble to its limits,\" said Villard, \"and we need a bigger space telescope to go back even farther. It shows us there are really exciting things to look for with the Webb telescope.\""}
{"id": "145611", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145611", "title": "Article/145597/Brown, Coakley win Massachusetts Senate seat primaries amid low voter turnout", "text": ""}
{"id": "145612", "revid": "160590", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145612", "title": "Danish unofficial draft version of UNCCC treaty leaks, G77 reacts sharply", "text": "On the third day of the two-week Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, the leaders of developing countries said that EU and US emissions cuts plans are not enough. After a Danish unofficial draft version of the future treaty leaked, they reacted with a demand of shift of emission cuts to developed world industries.\nThe host Danish government's draft version of a treaty was published by UK newspaper The Guardian without the government's consent. The draft says that \"developing countries, except the least developed which may contribute at their own discretion, commit to nationally appropriate mitigation actions\". The quantitative consideration in it is that a 50% emissions cut globally (from 1990 levels) by 2050 should be achieved, with most industrialised nations implementing 80% cuts.\n Deputy Head of the Chinese delegation Su Wei recalled the 1997 Kyoto protocol, which includes the statement \"no developing nations are committed to emission cuts or sharing of funding for mitigation and adaptation in poor parts of the world\". Su Wei said, \"The EU position cannot be justified. The [Kyoto] protocol among other UNFCCC agreements stipulate clearly what developed and developing countries should do.\"\nIn an interview with Politiken, a Danish daily broadsheet newspaper, the Chairman of Group of 77 commented on the event, mentioning the previous Denmark-Africa friendly political relations:\nA member of poverty-focused charity, Oxfam, Antonio Hill commented to the BBC, speaking positively about the idea of transferring finance from industrialised to developing countries \u2014 to help them curb their emissions and help them protect against the impacts of climate change. Antonio Hill said that otherwise industrialised nations had to offer considerably bigger cuts. Commentators say the G77 block statements are substantially reasonable, since many of emissions sources are geographically located in developing countries, but owned by citizens of developed countries.\nExecutive secretary of the UNFCCC Yvo de Boer said the document had no weight at the conference:\nHead of the global climate initiative World Wide Fund for Nature Kim Carstensen commented on the event, pledging not to to distract to the 'Danish text' and to concentrate on subsequent official actions at Copenhagen:"}
{"id": "145614", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145614", "title": "COP15, &quot;Danish text&quot; divides climate summit", "text": ""}
{"id": "145616", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145616", "title": "COP15, &quot;Danish text&quot; and &quot;BASIC text&quot; divides climate summit", "text": ""}
{"id": "145624", "revid": "16559", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145624", "title": "COP15, Alternative &quot;text's&quot; divide climate summit", "text": ""}
{"id": "145626", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145626", "title": "Oxford to use online voting for Professor of Poetry election", "text": "The University of Oxford has announced that it plans to introduce online voting for the 2010 election for the position of Professor of Poetry. Under the current rules, voters have to visit Oxford on the day of the election to cast their vote. The proposals, which require the approval of the university's governing authorities, would allow votes to be cast online or in person over a number of days. The hope is that overall turnout will improve: about 300,000 people were eligible to vote in the last election for the position as they were graduates or academics of the university, but less than 500 did.\nThe 2010 election follows the controversy of 2009, which saw candidate Derek Walcott withdraw before the contest after anonymous letters were sent to more than 100 Oxford academics giving details of an allegation of sexual harassment made against him in 1982. The eventual winner, Ruth Padel, resigned when it emerged that she had briefed student journalists about the allegations. Walcott described the election campaign as \"low and degrading\". \nAlthough the university has said that it wants to make the election \"more accessible\", there are concerns that the changes will make the process worse. The director of the Poetry Society, Judith Palmer, said that changes would not address \"the bigger problem\", as the election process is \"notoriously bruising\". She added that many poets in the past have refused to consider running and said that these reforms would \"probably increase the number of good candidates ruling themselves out.\"\nThe post of Professor of Poetry dates from 1708, with the most recent holder being the academic Christopher Ricks. Former holders include Seamus Heaney and W. H. Auden. It has been described as the \"second-best poetry job in England\", after that of Poet Laureate. The professor has to give three lectures during the year and to deliver every other year a speech giving thanks to benefactors during the ceremony for the presentation of honorary degrees. There is no obligation to write poetry for the university during the five-year tenure of the post, although past holders have taken steps to encourage student poetry. Padel would have been the first woman to hold the post."}
{"id": "145627", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145627", "title": "'World' stops turning for longest-running US soap opera", "text": "\"As the World Turns\", the longest-running soap opera on American television, was canceled Tuesday by CBS, the network which has aired the show since its first episode in 1956. This news comes just three months after the ending of \"Guiding Light\", formerly the longest-running soap in radio and television history, which had entertained generations of Americans for seven decades.\nIn the announcement, Barbara Bloom, senior vice president of daytime programing at CBS, wrote, \"It's extremely difficult to say good-bye to a long-running series that's been close to our hearts for so long...The almanacs will show \"As the World Turns\" as a pioneer of the format, a hallmark for quality with its numerous Emmys, the launching pad for many television and film stars and a daytime ratings powerhouse for parts of three decades.\"\nThe cancellation comes at a particularly bad time not only for the people involved with producing the soap, but also for the soap opera industry in general. With the cancellation announcement, the number of daytime soap operas on the air in the United States will shrink from seven to six. By comparison, there were 12 soap operas on the air in 1997 and 19 in 1973. \nWhile the revelation may have hurt, it was not entirely a surprise. The ratings for the soap opera have fallen to 2.5 million viewers, over 60% from 1993, when the show was watched by 6.5 million viewers daily. \"Soap Opera Digest\" editorial director Lynn Leahey said not to call for the death of the genre; its next act may prove more profitable on the Internet. \"It has to be turned into a business model. I do think there's huge potential there. I think if we can deliver the content where people are instead of expecting them to sit in front of their TVs, there's hope,\" Leahey said.\nThe news was taken particularly hard at \"As the World Turns\"' Brooklyn studios, where the building was closed off to press on Tuesday. \"We are disappointed and saddened by the news that the show is not being renewed. It will certainly be a loss for all of us, and for the show's loyal audience,\" said executive producer Christopher Goutman in a prepared statement. \"It's a hell of a Christmas present,\" said actress Eileen Fulton, whose spitfire character Lisa was an integral part of the canvas in the show's top-rated years in the 1960s and 1970s. \"I'm just very sad. I'm sad for all of the people who work out there in Brooklyn. We're a family. I hate to be split up. It's like a divorce.\"\nThe series, which focuses on the lives, loves and torments in the small Midwestern town of Oakdale, will have a nine-month swan song; the final episode will not be airing until September 2010. Until that time, Procter &amp; Gamble's TeleNext Media will be trying to find a new home for the show, either on another television network or online. If \"As the World Turns\" leaves the air entirely, Procter &amp; Gamble, the company which coined the term \"soap opera,\" will officially end its 76-year partnership between its cleaning products and the dramatic medium."}
{"id": "145630", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145630", "title": "Article/145627/'World' stops turning for longest-running US soap opera", "text": ""}
{"id": "145634", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145634", "title": "Thousands of Indonesians protest against corruption", "text": "Several thousand people marched earlier today in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta, to protest corruption in the country.\nMost of them were students protesting the latest corruption scandal in the country. It involves allegations that a US$600 million government bailout was given to Century Bank on condition that some of the money be used to fund the president's re-election campaign.\n\"Today's aim is not to attack politically any party. We just want to send a message to our fellow countrymen [...] that justice cannot be served while corruption is still rampant in our country,\" said the organiser of the demonstration, Usman Hamid, as quoted by the Al Jazeera news agency.\nThe legislature is investigating the bailout and the possible roles played by Vice President Boediono and Finance Minister Sri Mulyani in orchestrating a deal. The government, however, denies the charges.\nThousands more demonstrated in other cities and towns across the country. Most rallies were without incident, but in the town of Makassar, located in South Sulawesi, students armed with rocks and wooden planks clashed with anti-riot police.\nThe news media report that police fired tear gas to break up the crowd after protesters tried to storm the provincial governor's office. There was no immediate report of injuries or arrests among the 2,000 protesters."}
{"id": "145635", "revid": "177928", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145635", "title": "Article/145626/Oxford to use online voting for Professor of Poetry election", "text": ""}
{"id": "145641", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145641", "title": "Article/145608/Hubble telescope spots oldest galaxies ever seen", "text": ""}
{"id": "145643", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145643", "title": "Article/145634/Thousands of Indonesians protest against corruption", "text": ""}
{"id": "145647", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145647", "title": "Monster waves make way for rare surfing competition", "text": "Massive waves pounded the North Shore of Oahu, Hawaii Tuesday, allowing for a rare surfing competition to take place.\nThe contest is known as the Eddie Aikau competition, named after a noted Hawaiian surfer who was lost at sea during the 1970s. It has only taken place eight times in the past 25 years.\nTens of thousands of spectators from across the state gathered to watch 28 expert surfers tackle the 40-foot waves. Competitor Jamie O'Brien said, \"We were all stoked out there, smiling, laughing and having a good time.\" He added, \"This is like a natural arena out here for this and it's amazing to be a part of it.\"\nThe monstrous waves were caused by two cyclones to the northwest of the islands. Conditions have to be nearly perfect for the competition to commence.\nThe winner was 24 year-old Greg Long, a first-time entrant who took home a $55,000 prize.\nThe dangerous conditions inflicted one injury, but safety teams were on standby to deal with any accidents."}
{"id": "145659", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145659", "title": "Article/145612/Danish unofficial draft version of UNCCC treaty leaks, G77 reacts sharply", "text": ""}
{"id": "145669", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145669", "title": "Gunmen seize at least 75 hostages in Philippines", "text": "The Philippine military said today that gunmen have seized at least 75 people, most of them schoolchildren, after a raid on a remote elementary school in the southern Philippines.\nMilitary officials said that about fifteen gunmen from the Manobo tribe abducted some of the residents of a village on the Mindanao island on Thursday.\nThe group, reportedly armed with M-14 and M-16 rifles, captured four teachers and the school principal of the New Maasim Elementary School, and an unknown number of students. Police said that fifteen of children were later released. The seizure occurred shortly after the flag ceremony, when they were due to start classes. Two foresters for the Department of Environment and Natural Resources were also taken hostage.\nNegotiations are being made to release the captives, according to a local police chief. \"Negotiations are ongoing. We are trying to find out how the others can be released,\" said Lino Calingasan to the Reuters news agency.\nLocal police have filed charges against the suspected kidnappers, however, they reported that the gunmen didn't seem to want to hurt or kill the hostages. Officials said that the gunmen appear to be using them as human shields to escape.\nThe southern Philippines suffers from frequent banditry, loosely supervised government-armed militias, and Muslim and communist insurgents. Last month, 57 people in an election convoy were massacred in the southern part of the Maguindanao province, which has since been placed under martial law."}
{"id": "145670", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145670", "title": "Guinea arrests 100 soldiers in connection with attempted assassination of leader", "text": "Guinea's military government has said that it arrested about 100 soldiers, as it investigates the attempted assassination of military ruler Moussa Dadis Camara.\nAccording to state officials, the detained soldiers are allies of presidential guard chief Lieutenant Aboubacar Sidiki Diakite, who is suspected of being behind last Thursday's shooting.\nDiakite, who also goes under the name of \"Toumba,\" is still at large; a reward worth 200 million Guinean francs or about US$40,000 was reportedly offered for information leading to his capture.\nMeanwhile, a top Guinean military official has made his first public appearance since taking over government affairs while Camara recovers from head wounds in a Moroccan hospital.\nGeneral Sekouba Konate, Guinea's defence minister, appeared on state television on Wednesday meeting with soldiers, and urging them to be disciplined and united. There are fears in Guinea that a power struggle may break out while Camara recovers.\nCamara's medical condition remains unclear, although government officials say he is doing well.\nOn Wednesday, the government suspended crisis talks with opposition groups until Camara returns home. One opposition leader accused the government of withdrawing from the talks to stay in power longer. The opposition has called for Camara and other military leaders to step down. Before the December 3 shooting, however, the junta had said Camara must be part of any transitional government.\nCamara was apparently shot during an argument with Diakite over who should take responsibility for the killing of dozens of opposition protesters in Guinea's capital, Conakry, on September 28. "}
{"id": "145671", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145671", "title": "Somali pirates release Greek-owned ship", "text": "Somali pirates released a Greek-owned cargo ship and its 24 Ukrainian crew members earlier today, after seven months in captivity.\nThe director of Greek shipping firm Alloceans Shipping, Spyros Minas, announced that pirates freed the \"Ariana\", after the company paid a ransom. The released sailors were in good health, Minas noted.\nUkrainian president Victor Yushchenko also announced the crew's release from . \"I congratulate the nation, and I congratulate the families on the successful operation to free our sailors,\" he commented.\nThe shipping company did not reveal the size of the ransom, but pirates told reporters the amount was more than US$2.5 million. The pirates claimed it was worth US$3 million.\nThe \"Ariana\", reported to be carrying several thousand tons of , was en route from Brazil to the Middle East when it was seized by pirates.\nPirates have continued to hijack vessels off the eastern coast of Africa despite the presence of foreign naval patrols in the area. They are still believed to be holding around 260 crew members on nearly a dozen captured ships."}
{"id": "145674", "revid": "16528", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145674", "title": "Article/145669/Gunmen seize at least 75 hostages in Philippines", "text": ""}
{"id": "145680", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145680", "title": "Article/145671/Somali pirates release Greek-owned ship", "text": ""}
{"id": "145682", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145682", "title": "Article/145670/Guinea arrests 100 soldiers in connection with attempted assassination of leader", "text": ""}
{"id": "145685", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145685", "title": "Corpse of former President of Cyprus Tassos Papadopoulos stolen", "text": "The corpse of former Cypriot President Tassos Papadopoulos has been stolen by grave robbers. Officials report that his body was taken overnight from the Deftera Cemetery in Nicosia. The theft was reported one day before the anniversary of his death. Police reported that fresh mounds of dirt were piled up beside the grave. The motive is still unclear. \nThe leader of the Diko party, Papadopoulos\u2019s former alliance, released a statement. Marios Garoyan called the act a \"heinous and terrible crime\". \nA heavy smoker, Papadopoulos died on the 12th of December, 2008 after a battle with lung cancer. He was the President of Cyprus from the 23rd of February, 2003 until 23 February 2008. "}
{"id": "145686", "revid": "23647", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145686", "title": "Article/145685/Corpse of former President of Cyprus Tassos Papadopoulos stolen", "text": ""}
{"id": "145691", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145691", "title": "Protesters serenade Lockheed Martin outside firm's UK HQ", "text": "Fourteen peace activists from pressure group Trident Ploughshares, dressed mainly in Santa hats, with the occasional nuclear weapons inspector or reindeer, descended upon the low-key London based UK Headquarters of American arms giant Lockheed Martin on Thursday.\nActivists, campaigning for nuclear disarmament and against the government\u2019s plans to replace the trident nuclear missile system, leafleted passersby; informing them of Lockheed\u2019s low key presence in the area and of the government\u2019s plans to expand the Trident system, involving investments of as much as \u00a375 billion (US$121.8 billion).\nLockheed Martin, the world\u2019s largest arms manufacturer, create the warheads and delivery mechanisms of Britain and America's nuclear capabilities. They lead the UK-based consortium to develop a replacement to the UK Trident nuclear missile system. Many believe that the UK plans to replace the Trident system go against international obligations in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NNPT). \nThe NNPT calls for countries without nuclear weapons not to develop them, and countries with them to negotiate the elimination of their weapons. Negotiations since the treaty's inception have concentrated on reducing stockpiles, not the elimination of nuclear weapons. In 1996, the International Court of Justice said that, \"there is an obligation to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control\".\nTrident's proposed replacement is currently under preliminary work and will be developed at the Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE) near Aldermaston. The AWE is currently privately owned, publicly funded, and two-thirds owned by American interests. The UK-based share is held by Serco Group.\nSeveral members of the public stopped and signed a Christmas card for Lockheed Martin. The protesters' festive greeting called for Lockheed Martin to invest their skills and finances in people and peace, as opposed to into weaponry. Many also signed petitions against the government\u2019s proposed Trident replacement system, calling for the \u00a375 billion to be invested elsewhere. Surveys on the British YouGov site indicate 65% of UK citizens would prefer the funds be spent elsewhere. \nWhile protesters were leafleting on the street, Lockheed alerted police to the demonstration. According to police on the scene, Lockheed staff were alarmed by the sight of a bike helmet clipped to our reporter's camera bag; citing this as evidence of intent to breach the peace. Police reassured Lockheed that no breach of the peace was likely to take place and left.\nAfter leafleting for over an hour, activists moved to Carlisle Place, where Lockheed\u2019s office is located, to present the Christmas card and sing. The building on Carlisle Place is an offices complex shared by several firms, previously owned by the Catholic Church. Lockheed Martin refused to allow a delegation of one activist and our reporter into the building to present the card to their reception. Nor was anyone prepared to accept it at the door. The card was accepted by the building manager, otherwise unaffiliated with Lockheed, on the assurance that it would be presented to the firm's reception.\nThe building security guard and premises manager stayed at the entrance after accepting the card, to listen to the campaigner\u2019s renditions of suitably modified festive songs and ensure free passage of visitors and staff in and out of the building. The activists started with a song to the tune of Rudolf the Red Nose Reindeer, the alternative lyrics being, \"Lockheed the big bomb maker Does some very nasty work Building new nuclear weapons Carlisle Place is where they lurk\".\nWhile singing, one of the activists; dressed as a nuclear weapons inspector with a Santa mask, lay down on the pavement in front of the building, with flowers resting atop his black body bag. Singing continued for over fifteen minutes before activists said their final goodbyes to building staff and security cameras and retired to the nearby Stop the War Coalition offices for hot refreshments.\nAccording to the Premises Manager, Lockheed Martin's lease on their Carlisle Place offices expires in less than two years time. Lockheed will likely not renew the lease, instead relocating due to the location becoming public knowledge, and a target for further demonstrations.\nMore photographs of this action are available on Flickr."}
{"id": "145695", "revid": "39076", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145695", "title": "Government of Canada okays WIND Mobile launch, overturning CRTC decision", "text": "Industry Canada announced today that the government, through the Privy Council Office, has effectively overturned a decision by the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) regarding the status of Globalive Wireless Management Corporation, which was set to launch in November under the WIND Mobile brand.\nIn a release issued this morning, Tony Clement, Minister of Industry is quoted as saying \"Globalive is a Canadian company, and meets Canadian ownership and control requirements under the Telecommunications Act,\" differing with the CRTC's decision, where they ruled that control-in-fact of Globalive was with Cairo-based Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E., the corporation holding much of Globalive's equity and debt. A decision had been rendered under Canadian Ownership and Control regulations by Industry Canada at the time of the Advanced Wireless Spectrum (AWS) auction held in 2007\u20132008, at which time they had ruled that Globalive did meet the tests of ownership and control under the same regulation, as referenced by the Order-in-Council included with the government's announcement this morning.\nWith the decision by the government, Globalive is now permitted to launch their wireless service, which is expected to occur in the Calgary and Toronto markets in time for the busy holiday shopping season.\n\"This is a new day for wireless in Canada. This holiday season we will start to provide Canadians with the competitive choice that they want and deserve,\" said Anthony Lacavera, Chairman and CEO of Globalive Communications Corporation, in a release sent out today.\nNot everyone was quite as enthusiastic however, with Michael Hennessey, Senior VP of Regulatory and Government Affairs for TELUS Communications quoted as saying \"If Wind is Canadian then so was King Tut,\" in a comment posted to Twitter, according to the CBC.\nTELUS had led the charge in requesting the CRTC review the ownership structure of Globalive/WIND, and had received support from Shaw Communications, along with new entrant Public Mobile, all of whom were reported to have signed an open letter to Industry Minister Clement published in Parliament Hill newspaper The Hill Times upon the announcement that he would be reviewing said decision by the CRTC. There is no word yet on whether TELUS or other carriers will attempt to appeal the ruling."}
{"id": "145697", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145697", "title": "Thousands continue to flee fighting in Yemen", "text": "The United Nations refugee agency reports thousands of civilians continue to flee their homes in northern Yemen as fighting between government troops and Al Houti rebel forces enters a fifth month. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) says the situation in the Saada province remains particularly tense as more people arrive there.\nThe U.N. refugee agency reports clashes have broken out in a number of districts in the Saada province as more people arrive. It says the situation in the Razeh district is particularly serious.\nThe UNHCR says the civilian population there faces restrictions of movement and lacks basic services such as electricity and water. It says shortages of food and other commodities are pushing prices up sharply and an increasing number of people cannot afford to buy what they need.\nU.N. refugee spokesman Andrej Mahecic says the influx of huge numbers of people in neighboring Hajjah and Amran provinces is putting a strain on shelter and aid.\n\"Over the past month alone, the IDP [internally displaced people] population of al-Mazrak One camp in Hajjah governorate has doubled. There are now some 21,000 IDPs living in a camp initially designed to shelter up to 10,000 people and overcrowding is presently the top concern for us,\" he said. \"At least some 500 families in al-Mazrak camp are sharing their tents, normally meant for one family, with one or two other households. We estimate another 1,300 families who are accommodated in 48 large communal tents in four transit areas of the camp, are presently waiting for allocation of a family tent.\"\nThe UNHCR reports overcrowding in the camp is hampering delivery of humanitarian services. The agency says it reached an agreement with Yemeni authorities this week to build a third camp. And, plans are underway to set up a camp that would potentially house some 7,000 people.\nMahecic says the number of IDPs settling with local populations outside the camps has increased as well. He says local communities are bearing the brunt of the continuing displacement in Yemen. He says aid agencies are looking at ways they can assist host families.\nThe U.N. refugee agency reports an estimated 175,000 people have been affected by the conflict in Yemen since 2004, including those displaced by the latest crisis."}
{"id": "145700", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145700", "title": "New York City Mass Transit facing service cuts", "text": "New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority is proposing to make service cuts to close its expected US$343 million (\u20ac234m, GBP \u00a3211m) budget deficit. The plan includes the elimination of multiple bus lines in The Bronx, Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn, the elimination of the W (Astoria, Queens to Lower Manhattan) and the Z (Jamaica, Queens to Lower Manhattan via Brooklyn) train services. Also included in the plan are cuts of nighttime bus and train service.\n\"We're not going to rely on anyone else to do anything for us. We're going to rely on ourselves.\" MTA board member Mitchell Pally said, commenting on the New York state's budget plan cutting $143 million of tax revenue from the agency. MTA Chairman Jay Walder has said in the past that he would not raise fares ahead of schedule.\nGene Russianoff of the Straphangers Campaign, a commuter advocacy group, said that the agency should take money from its current construction and maintenance fund, and put it into maintaining these services."}
{"id": "145704", "revid": "21135", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145704", "title": "Arabsat puts Arabic news channel back on the air", "text": "Middle East communication satellite provider Arabsat stated Thursday that they have put the Arabic news channel Al-Alam back on the air. The Iranian-based channel was previously taken off the air in November by two Arab satellite providers, Arabsat and Nilesat, without an explanation. The move was criticised by many in the Middle East including locals and prominent figures.\nWhen the channel was taken off the air it forced the owners of Al-Alam to move the channel to Atlantic Bird 4 so it could reach Middle East viewers. It is still not known why the two satellite providers took the channel off the air but political experts suggested it was a political move against Iran. Iranian officials at the time suggested the move was illegal and threatened to sue the satellite providers. \nCurrently Nilesat is the only satellite provider not to put Al-Alam back on the air. "}
{"id": "145709", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145709", "title": "NYC Mass Transit facing service cuts", "text": ""}
{"id": "145712", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145712", "title": "Article/145700/New York City Mass Transit facing service cuts", "text": ""}
{"id": "145713", "revid": "117377", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145713", "title": "Arabsat put\u2019s Arabic news channel back on the air", "text": ""}
{"id": "145714", "revid": "8098", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145714", "title": "Article/145697/Thousands continue to flee fighting in Yemen", "text": ""}
{"id": "145719", "revid": "22784", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145719", "title": "Article/145704/Arabsat puts Arabic news channel back on the air", "text": ""}
{"id": "145721", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145721", "title": "Christmas Demo at Lockheed Martin UK HQ", "text": ""}
{"id": "145723", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145723", "title": "Benet Academy, Illinois boys basketball team defeats Naperville North after scoring crucial three-pointer", "text": "The Benet Academy Redwings' varsity boys basketball team defeated Naperville North High School Tuesday night after scoring a tie-breaking three-point goal at the buzzer. \nBoth teams from DuPage County, Illinois, United States, entered the game held at Naperville North undefeated, having won tournament titles during the Thanksgiving holiday and conference openers. Benet defeated St. Patrick High School 41\u201327 in the East Suburban Catholic Conference opener last week. The Redwings and the Huskies faced each other last year as well in the postseason regional opening round game, with the former defeating the latter.\nThe two teams played evenly in the first quarter, but Naperville North's reserves achieved an 11\u20130 run starting at the end of the first quarter. Benet did not score any goals in the second quarter, leaving it with a 15\u201327 loss at halftime. The Redwings, however, began to recover in the third quarter with only eight turnovers and a 22\u201317 rebounding deficit, but they still lagged behind with a score of 27\u201337 at the end of the third quarter. The team ultimately rebounded in the fourth quarter when senior forward Dylan Flood scored five consecutive three-point goals. \nWith only 8.1 seconds left in the game and a tie of 42\u201342, Benet had possession of the ball and called a timeout. Naperville North fouled twice and also called a timeout with 3.4 seconds left. Junior guard Dave Sobolewski received a pass from Flood and scored a three-point goal at the buzzer, leading Benet to victory as fans stormed the court. \"I was lucky enough to hit it,\" said Sobolewski. \nDue to the victory, Benet earned a record of 5\u20130, while that of Naperville North was 5\u20131. Benet will continue to play several away games over the next few weeks and into the Christmas and New Year holiday, with only one of its first thirteen games being a home game. The home game will be played against Marian Catholic High School on Saturday night. One school Benet surely will not be playing against this year, however, is St. Francis High School. In an address to the student body last year, Principal Stephen Marth ended the long-lasting rivalry with St. Francis, citing concerns about student misconduct during the game held between the two schools on February 14, 2009. Benet and St. Francis are not in the same conference. "}
{"id": "145725", "revid": "179430", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145725", "title": "Hawaiian Representative Neil Abercrombie resigns", "text": "Hawaiian Democrat Neil Abercrombie announced Friday that he is resigning his position as Representative of the state's first congressional district, which he had held since 1991. He announced his candidacy for the position of Hawaii's governor on March 9, 2009. At this time the Democratic party has not named a preferred successor.\nA news conference is scheduled for tomorrow, in which he will announce a formal date for resignation. In a statement on his website, he says that he is intending to go \"all in\" on his run for governor.\nA statement from Jonah Ka'auwai, chairman of the Hawaiian Republican party, said that Abercrombie's resignation is a move to steal the election from opponent Charles Djou. Neither Abercrombie nor Djou have commented on the matter."}
{"id": "145726", "revid": "177928", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145726", "title": "Hawaiian Representative Neil Abercrombie resigins", "text": ""}
{"id": "145735", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145735", "title": "Help", "text": ""}
{"id": "145736", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145736", "title": "Protesters demonstrate, sing outsite of Lockheed Martin's UK headquarters", "text": ""}
{"id": "145738", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145738", "title": "Article/145691/Protesters serenade Lockheed Martin outside firm's UK HQ", "text": ""}
{"id": "145739", "revid": "1225", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145739", "title": "Article/145723/Benet Academy, Illinois boys basketball team defeats Naperville North after scoring crucial three-pointer", "text": ""}
{"id": "145745", "revid": "9158", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145745", "title": "Red Cross appeals for US$33 million in food relief for Zimbabwe", "text": "The Red Cross has appealed for US$33.2 million worth of humanitarian aid to feed 222,035 hungry people in Zimbabwe. According to the institution, there are 2.8 million or so people in the country who are \"food-insecure\".\n\u201cThe Red Cross is appealing for 38.4 million Swiss francs [US$33.2 million] to continue its emergency food operation until September 2010,\u201d the Red Cross said in a statement on Friday.\nEmma Kundishora, the secretary-general of Zimbabwe\u2019s Red Cross, commented further on the appeal. \u201cThe group that we are targeting [222,035 people] is acutely vulnerable. This is a group affected by HIV and Aids. It is a group that is particularly poor, and because of this they are unable to access foreign currency to purchase food.\u201d\nThe United Nations has asked for about $378 million worth of aid for Zimbabwe for 2010, some of it intended to help feed hungry people. The Red Cross said it would be giving out food aid in the country until next September."}
{"id": "145746", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145746", "title": "Article/145745/Red Cross appeals for US$33 million in food relief for Zimbabwe", "text": ""}
{"id": "145758", "revid": "14511", "url": "https://en.wikinews.org/wiki?curid=145758", "title": "Indonesian court overturns Garuda pilot's conviction over air disaster", "text": "Indonesia's High Court in Yogyakarta has overturned the April conviction of a Garuda Indonesia pilot who was behind the controls in an air disaster. Captain Marwoto Komar was cleared of negligently causing the deaths of 21 when his Boeing 737 overshot the runway at Adisucipto Airport.\nThe March 2007 crash occurred after the flight from Jakarta landed at excessive speed and a steep angle. The jet bounced down the runway before overshooting and coming to rest in a rice field, where it was destroyed by fire. Of the 140 on board, sixteen Indonesians and five Australians were killed.\nThe court in Komar's trial had ruled that while it could not be shown for sure that the aircraft was mechanically sound with the Captain solely responsible for the dangerous landing, Komar had two minutes in which to inform air traffic control and his co-pilot Gagam Salman R. that they were experiencing an emergency. The court found that had he done so Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting equipment could have been mobilised ready for the incoming jet. The investigation by the National Transportation Safety Committee (KNKT) found no mechanical defect and stated that fifteen activations of the Ground proximity warning system had been ignored, but international law made this inadmissible as evidence.\nThe ruling was overturned in September, but has only just been published. The High Court ruled that the prosecution had failed to \"legally and convincingly\" demonstrate guilt and therefore \"the defendant's rights, position and status should be restored.\" Komar received half of the four year sentence sought by prosecutors but avoided jail as he was freed on bail while the appeal was pending. Komar's lawyer Mochtar Zuhdi said the High Court decision was final and cannot be appealed.\nThe decision to charge Captain Komar was highly controversial; the first time Indonesia prosecuted a pilot over a crash. Indonesia Air Traffic Controllers Association chief Adrie Gunawan said that 26 controllers left the country fearing possible prosecutions if anything went wrong on their shift; they also threatened to strike. Indonesian Pilots' Association chief Manotar Napitupulu said \"This shows that the justice system has finally understood that Marwoto\u2019s case did not belong in court.\" Last year \"Wikinews\" interviewed Paul McCarthy, an aviation lawyer and pilot who serves as the International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations' representative to the International Civil Aviation Organisation. McCarthy said that prosecuting the man could have a chilling effect on people speaking to accident investigators, hence affecting safety. He also heavily criticised the investigation.\nNot everyone is pleased by the decision. Victims' families in Australia are upset and angry at the decision. The \"Sydney Morning Herald\" used a headline that stated \"Ruling denies justice for Australian crash victims\". \"The fact he has had his conviction quashed and pilot status reinstated, it's like nothing's happened,\" said Caroline Mellish, whose brother Morgan was killed. Simone Kerr, who lost her sister in the disaster, said \"My greatest fear is that he will be flying again. He needs to be held accountable for his actions... There is no justice in this world.\""}
